<div><h1 class='nobreak'>CHAPTER I</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>The mouth of the canyon was darkened with
shadows when the bull elk came stealing down the
brown trail through the dusky thicket. In all this
mountain realm, a land where the wild things
of the forest still held sway, there was no creature
of more majestic bearing or noble beauty. He
was full-grown; his great antlers swept back over
his powerful shoulders; and it was evident from
his carriage that he had no fear of such enemies
as might be lurking in the gloomy canyon. For
it was known far through the forest that even the
great puma or the terrible grizzly, unless they
had the advantage of ambush, treated Spread
Horn with considerable respect.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Signs of July were everywhere: signs that
were large print and clear to the eyes of the wild
creatures, but which would have been mostly unintelligible
to men. The huckleberries were just
beginning to ripen in the thickets as always, in
the seventh month. The fledglings, the little
weasel noticed as he climbed here and there
through the branches, were just the July size,—still
soft with the fat of squabhood but yet big
enough to make a pleasing lump in the stomach.
The pines are a wonderful calendar in themselves;
and only to the eyes of human beings,
badly in need of spectacles, do they seem never
to change. They go from a deep, rich green to a
strange dusky blue, and now they were just about
halfway between. This fact, as well as the size
and developments of their cones, indicated as
clearly as a printed calendar that the month was
July. Besides, old Spread Horn had a sure index
to the month in his own antlers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Time was, and not many months back at that,
when he had no more sign of antlers than his own
cows. The time would come, just before they
fell off completely, when they would be suitably
hard and sharp for the edification of any rival
stags that should attempt to disrupt his family
life. Just at present they were full-grown but
still in the “velvet,”—covered with a sort of
tawny fuzz that was soft to the touch. It indicated
July without the least chance for doubt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He came slipping easily down the canyon; and
there was no reason whatever for expecting him.
He walked into the wind: his scent was blown
behind. Otherwise certain coyotes and lynx and
such hunters, too ineffective ever to get farther
than hungry thoughts and speculations, would
have been somewhat excited by his approach.
Spread Horn made it his business to walk into
the face of the wind just as much as possible, and
in that way he was aware of all living creatures
in the foreground before they were aware of him.
To walk down the wind, all creatures know, is to
announce one’s self as clearly as to wear a bell
around the neck.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Neither did the great elk make any sounds in
particular. If indeed a twig cracked from time
to time beneath his foot it was not enough to
arouse any interest. He was not especially
hungry, but now and then he lowered his head to
crop a tender shoot from the shrubbery. At such
times he kept watch, out of the corner of his eyes,
for any enemies that might be waiting in ambush
beside the trail. He would stake his horns and
hoofs against any wild creature that inhabited
Smoky Land, in a fair fight; but the puma—and
sometimes even the grizzly—didn’t always play
fair. They knew how to leap like the blast of
doom from a heavy thicket.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A coyote—most despised of hunters—saw
Spread Horn’s tall form in the shrubbery and
glided away. There was a legend in the coyote’s
family of how once a particularly bold forefather
had seized a cow elk by the leg, and of the subsequent
tragedy that had befallen. The only result,
it had seemed, was a careful and patient
dissection of the gray body beneath the front
hoofs of the bull—arriving just the wrong moment—and
Gray Thief had no desire to start a
new legend on his own account.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Spread Horn showed no surprise at his appearance.
His only neighbors were the wild
folk,—the only people that he knew. For the
wild creatures were still, as far as facts went, the
real owners and habitants of Smoky Land. It
is true that in various heavy and dusty books in
legal offices it could be learned that this particular
part of Idaho was public domain, but as yet
few frontiersmen had come to clear away the
forest and till the meadows. The place was really
startlingly large—distances are always rather
generous in the West—but few were the maps
that named it. Those that had gone to fish in its
waters and hunt its mountains thought of it always
as beyond,—beyond the last outposts of
civilization, beyond the end of the trails, and
clear where the little rivers rose in great springs.
The cattlemen had named it, and at the end of
the dry summer, when forest fires ranged here
and there through the high ridges on each side,
the name was particularly appropriate. Because
of the structure of the passes the winds were
likely to fill the region with pale, blue smoke.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In reality Smoky Land lay on the great shoulders
of the Rockies,—a high plateau, studded
here and there by grim and lofty snow peaks. It
was not a land for gentlefolk. It was a hard,
grim place, a forbidding land where the sun was
a curse in summer and the winds a stinging lash
in winter, where great glaciers gleamed in the
morning light and snow fields lay unchanging
above the line where the timber became stunted
and died. There were rugged crags and impassable
cliffs, deep gorges and dark, still canyons;
miles of gray sliderock and glossy grass slope;
and through it all, dwelling like a spirit, there
was a beauty that could not be denied. It manifested
itself to every sweep of the eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Game trails wound and crisscrossed through
the thickets, and the dung was not dried to dust
and the tracks half obliterated and stale as in
many of the game trails of the West. One only
had to wait, to lie still as a shadow in the coverts
to see such sights as the forest gods usually reserved
for the chosen few. Sometimes it was a
doe, stealing with mincing steps and incredible
grace from thicket to thicket; sometimes a puma,
glaring of eye and hushed of foot and curiously
interested in all the doings of the deer; sometimes
an old black bear grunted and mumbled
and soliloquized as he blundered along; and there
is a tale, one that only the swans that come to the
high lakes lived long enough to remember, that
years ago, in a particularly cold winter, Old Argali,
the great mountain ram, led his flock down
from the high peaks to feed on the green banks
of the streams.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Spread Horn knew them all. They were his
neighbors. Also he knew the people that lived in
the cataract at the bottom of the gorge. Sometimes,
when he paused to drink, the salmon
rushed past him in their mysterious journeyings,—their
fourth-year migration to the waters in
which they were born. They come to spawn in
the waters where they were themselves spawned
before they go down to the sea, and after they
spawn they die. To the naturalist there are
strange significances in this repatriation of the
salmon. There is a sense of curious relationships,—for
strong men, too, always try to return
to their homeland for their last days. After
four years, almost to the day, the salmon come
fighting their way back through the riffles, into
dreadful gorges, up cataracts, and high is the
waterfall that holds them back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The salmon were not the only water people
that Spread Horn knew. He had seen the trout,
too (of course the salmon himself is just an overgrown
trout that has taken up a seafaring life)
and some of them, like the salmon themselves,
took an occasional thousand-mile jaunt to the
ocean. These were the great steelheads and such
seagoing people, and sportsmen say that a five-pounder
at the end of a silk line will permit, for
ten tearing, fighting, breathless moments, a
glimpse into the Promised Land. But you can
imagine the mighty salmon, who have spent four
years in the sea and who have swum about the
reefs of Kamchatka, regarding them with some
patronage. Then there were the little trout:
quivering, timid, sparkling creatures that, although
great stay-at-homes and never going to
sea, still look very beautiful in a creel.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seems to be one of Nature’s aims to make
life interesting and exciting for all her creatures,
so she had provided certain other river-folk to
entertain these finned people. Their method of
entertainment was to take a sudden leap into a
riffle or trout pool with glittering, gleaming
razor-edged teeth all set and ready. One little
instant’s delay in darting to safety, one little
clasping of those wicked teeth into the beautiful
silver shoulder,—and the trout leaped no more
for flies in the cool of the evening. These were
the otter and mink and such fur-bearing people,
and they existed in plentiful numbers because in
this region the trapper had not yet made himself
particularly manifest. Then there were
plenty of mergansers and other feathered fishermen
to take care of the fingerlings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The cattle herds fed through the region, and
sometimes sportsmen penetrated its fastnesses,
but mostly Smoky Land was simply the wilderness,
primeval and unchanged. The venerable
grizzly still dug for marmots on the high ranges,—the
great killer that shared the mountain monarchy
with the bull elk. The Rocky Mountain
goat, white-whiskered as a patriarch, had a range
just adjoining that of the bighorn. The wolf
pack sang of death and hunger when the ridges
were swept with snow.</p>

<hr class='tbk100'/>

<p class='pindent'>The late afternoon sunlight, shot and dappled
by the shadows of the leaves, fell over the bull
elk’s body; and the animal sensed the approach
of night. It was the drinking hour. A spring
flowed at the foot of the glen, Spread Horn
knew, and he turned toward it, stealing softly.
And all at once he seemed to freeze in his tracks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wind had brought him a message, unmistakably
as wireless telephones bring messages of
approaching foes across a battle field. His
nervous reaction was instantaneous: danger, go
slow! Yet it was not a familiar smell, and scientists
would have a hard time explaining why the
stag had at once recognized its menace. For the
creature from whom it came was almost a
stranger to these mountains, and it was wholly
possible that Spread Horn had never perceived
the breed before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He stood still, gazing, and he looked a long
time through the shrubbery branches down to a
little green glade beside the spring. He raised
one foot and lifted his long muzzle. Then he
gave the warning cry,—the sound with which, in
the fall, he would warn his herd of danger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no more distinctive cry in the whole
wilderness world than this,—a strange, whistling
snort, beginning high on the scale and descending
to a deep bawl. It traveled far through the
stillness. He waited a breathless instant while
the echo came back to him. Then he sprang and
darted at full speed away into the heavier
thickets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Far below, at the spring, an unfamiliar figure
in these wilds leaped to his feet with a guttural
cry. It was also a distinctive sound: and no wonder
the little chipmunk paused in his scurried occupations
to listen to it. Even to the addled
brain of the squirrel it suggested annoyance and
anger,—a quality possessed by the snarl of the
puma when it had missed its stroke. No wonder
Spread Horn had fled. The figure was none
other than that tall harbinger of death and peril,
man.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was an elk,” the man cried. “You’ve
missed your chance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Some one stretched on the grass at his feet
answered with a half-snarl. “To hell with the
elk,” he replied. “You’ve tipped over the last
quart.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER II</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>It is a far cry from the fastnesses of Idaho
back to the lounging room of the Greenwood
Club in a great and fashionable city on the Atlantic
seaboard; but that distance must be
traveled in order to explain at all, to the satisfaction
of the old camp-robber bird that perched
and squawked upon a limb beside his camp, the
presence of Hugh Gaylord in Smoky Land. It
all went back to a June evening, immediately
preceding the dinner hour, in which he had a
short and somewhat important talk with that
gray, wise, venerable head of the board of governors
whom all men knew fondly as the “Old
Colonel.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was always very easy to learn to love the
Old Colonel. On the particular late June night
in question the Colonel looked his usual best in
correctly tailored dinner clothes, possessing only
one note of individuality, the black bow, obviously
factory-tied, set at his collar at a rather
startling angle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gaylord,” he said suddenly. “I’d like a
few words with you. Bring your glass over to
my chair.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The young man thus addressed had been one
of a gay group across the lounging room, and
they all looked up with interest. It was a remembered
fact that when the Colonel spoke in
that tone of voice it was well to listen closely.
Gaylord himself smiled and came at once toward
him. The group went on with their talk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The club lights showed the young man plainly,
yet he did not in the least stand out. In fact, at
first glance there was very little to distinguish
him from most of the other men of his age that
frequented the club rooms. It was not until
two weeks later, when his great adventure had
actually begun, and when the camp-robber
studied him from the tree limb, that his real personality
stood forth. Of course it was by light of
contrast. In these luxurious rooms he was
among his own kind: in those far mountains he
was a stranger and an alien.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was a familiar type: rather boyish, kind-hearted
as are most men who have lived sheltered
lives, a fair athlete and a good sportsman at the
poker table. It was enough; most of his young
friends were wholly satisfied with him, and except
perhaps for a vague, troubled hour—usually
late at night—Hugh Gaylord was wholly
satisfied with himself. And perhaps the reason
why the blood mounted higher in his cheeks as
the Colonel summoned him was his realization
that the old man had had sterner training, and
that he possessed X-ray eyes that could read
straight into a man. In the first place the
Colonel had amassed a fortune by his own resistless
effort. In the second, he had known the
great school of the forest. He was a sportsman
whose metal had been tried and proven on the
game trails of two continents.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His eyes leaped over Hugh’s face, and he
wondered if he had undertaken a vain task. He
knew that a steel-worker cannot make tempered
blades out of inferior metal. He wondered if he
could hope for any real response from the treatment
he was about to suggest. Hugh looked
soft, and soft men are not usually made hard by
a few weeks in the mountains. To follow the
high trails, to seek the hidden people, to scale the
cliffs and wade the marsh require a certain hardihood
of spirit to start with,—and Hugh Gaylord
seemed lacking in that trait. It was not that he
had a weakling’s body. Because it was the thing
to do in his own circle he had kept himself fit
on the gym-floor of his athletic club. His hands
were hard and brown, his figure lithe, his face
and neck were tanned in tennis court and golf
links.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet that hard-eyed old woodsman looked at
him straight and knew the truth. Hugh would
not be able at once to enter into the spirit of the
land where the Colonel was about to advise him
to go. The lean foresters, natives of the land,
would not accept him either; nor would they
stay to eat at his camp. They wouldn’t linger
to tell him secrets of the wild. If they talked to
him at all, it would be to narrate long and impossible
adventures that are usually, on the frontier,
the “feed” for tenderfeet. He could not enter
into the communion of the camp fire; and yet no
one—except possibly the Colonel himself—could
tell him why.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps he lacked the basic stuff. The Old
Colonel was a little despairing: he had begun to
fear that in this lay the true explanation. But
perhaps—and this was the old man’s hope—the
matter got down to a simple phrase of ancient
usage: that Hugh had merely not yet learned to
be a “man of his hands.” The meaning goes
deeper than mere manual toil. It implies
achievement, discipline, self-reliance. It is not
a thing to mistake. It promotes the kind of
equality that the Old Colonel himself knew,—that
which abides at a Western cow ranch or in
the battle trench. Hugh’s face was not unlined;
but dissipation rather than stress had made the
furrows. The lips did not set quite firm, the
young eyes were slightly dimmed and bloodshot.
There was, however, the Colonel saw with relief,
no trace of viciousness in his youthful face. He
was an Anglo-Saxon: after the manner of most
Northern men he was an honest young debaucher,
taking his orgies rather seriously and
overdoing them in a way that would be shocking
in a Latin. Possibly the same Northern blood
gave him a background of strength: this was the
old man’s hope.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re looking a bit seedy, Hugh,” the Old
Colonel began in his usual straightforward way.
“I’m afraid you’re getting to be sort of a poor
stick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>His tone was that with which he was wont to
begin an interesting story: perfectly matter-of-fact,
just as if he were pronouncing a judgment
on the weather. Hugh flushed to the roots of
his hair but he didn’t take offense. No one ever
could take offense when the Colonel told them
truths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Complimentary mood to-day, eh, Colonel,”
Hugh commented lightly. In reality he didn’t
feel in a festive mood at all. But he sat still,
dreading what might come next.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, not particularly,” the Colonel answered
soberly. “You know, Hugh, the interest I’ve
always taken in you. And you know why.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yes, Hugh knew why. It went back to one
of his own mother’s girlhood romances,—a rather
beautiful story such as men tell their wives and
sweethearts but from masculine reserve do not
talk over among themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know,” Hugh agreed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t see,” the old man went on thoughtfully,
“that in spite of the—er—damnable joy
of having you around, you’re any good to yourself
or any one else. Why don’t you lay off of
it a while?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mean—this?” Hugh tilted his glass
up on one edge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t happen to mean that, but perhaps
I’d better include it. I saw you last night,
Hugh, and I’m not one to think hard of a boy
for an occasional exhilaration. But the trouble
was—it was the night before too, and the night
before that, and nobody knows how many more
such nights. You’re looking a little soft around
the mouth, and just a little—too old for your
years. Won’t do, Hughey boy. I mean why
don’t you lay off this sort of life you’ve been
leading: too much ease, too much loaf, too much
booze, too much chorus, not enough work. Oh,
damn their skins! I wish they’d sent you to
France.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I guess you know how I felt about
that,” Hugh replied in his own defense. Yes,
the Colonel knew: Hugh had really and earnestly
wanted to go to France. He had been
commissioned, however, rather sooner than was
best for him, and he had been kept in an office in
Washington.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And the worst of it is you never even had to
go through the grind of being a real buck private,
with nothing particularly in sight. You’ve
had everything too easy. You ought to sweat
once, and feel a few breaks in your skin and a
few sore muscles. Soft, Hugh, soft as soap.
Lazy as sin. Why don’t you get out and rough
it for a while?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh stood up. “I don’t know——” he began
stiffly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I do. Sit down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The eyes of the two men met, and those of the
old man smiled under his bushy brows. Hugh
sat down again. He knew, only too well, how
true these words were. He had always been soft,
and trial had never hardened him. “I suppose
the same old chant—to go to work.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not this time. I’m going to prescribe another
treatment—a more pleasant one. I know
there’s no use of asking you to go to work. I
don’t see what work you could do. Sitting
around an office, considering the safe and sane
nature of your investments, wouldn’t help you
much. But, Hugh, I have some English friends—good
enough beggars most of ’em—and once
or twice they’ve confessed—that the only thing
that kept them from utter damnation was devoting
their lives to sport.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh knew about these “good enough
beggars” that were friends to the Colonel—many
of them men of great names and titles
whom lesser Americans would boast of knowing.
The Old Colonel shook his head somewhat sadly,
and for a moment his eyes gazed out over the twilight
grounds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When I say ‘sport,’ ” he explained, “I
mean he-man sport. Into Africa after lions.
Shooting a tiger from the ground. Up to Tibet
after snow leopards. Down to New Zealand
after trout. Going—going—going—never getting
soft. Blizzards and jungle and thirst and
cold. I know there’s no chance for me to get you
to do real work. But damn me—I can’t help but
think there’s a little of the old stuff in you somewhere,
and I’ve been thinking that a hard course
with rifle and fly rod might—might get you going
along the right lines. If you’d once learn
to love the outdoors, and learn to love to fight,
who knows what might not happen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And you suggest—that I take a trip after
lions?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lions are hard game, not for children,” was
the reply. “ ‘I hunted the lion,’ was one of the
few things an old and tough Egyptian Pharaoh
saw fit to record imperishably on his monument—but
you’re not a Pharaoh yet. I’ve got something
here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He fished through many waistcoat pockets
and drew out a clipping, spreading it out on the
broad arm of his chair. “I thought of you when
I read it—and cut it out—and I thought what I
would have done if it wasn’t for the old game leg.
I thought maybe it would stir up your dormant
imagination and set you off. Read it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh read, noting first that the clipping was
a reprint from an Idaho paper:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='pindent'>The stockmen of the Smoky Land section,
up Silver Creek way, say that unless
government hunters come to their aid, the
stock business in that district will be seriously
impaired. Wolves and coyotes seem
extra plentiful this year, and besides a giant
cougar, to whom the sparse settlers have
given the name of Broken Fang, has been
ranging there for some months, doing
thousands of dollars’ worth of damage to
cattle and sheep. From the size of his track
and the occasional glimpses of him, the residents
of that section think that he is the
largest of the great cats that has ranged in
Idaho for many years.</p>

</div>

<p class='pindent'>The Old Colonel studied Hugh’s face as he
read. “Not very interesting, eh?” he commented
at last. “My boy—he would be a
trophy. I know something about that hairy old
breed of mountaineers in the Upper Salmon
country. They don’t take the trouble to give a
puma a name unless he’s a moose. I know quite a
little about pumas, too—or cougars, they call ’em.
Usually they are about as dangerous as white
rabbits. But once in a while one of them gets
overgrown and thinks he bosses the range. If
wounded—and sometimes by a long chance even
if he isn’t wounded—they put up a wicked fight.
This big boy would be a trophy worth having;
besides, you might pick up a grizzly or a smaller
puma. There are always trout, and this is trout-time
in the West. Why don’t you go after
him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Old Colonel always put his propositions
in just that straight-out way; and it made them
hard to refuse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mean—go out there three thousand
miles on a long chance of killing this cattle-slayer?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why not? You’re not paralyzed or anything.
You ought to see Idaho. Every man
should. As I said, there are worlds of smaller
game. Every man ought to have an objective
in his trip; so I say go to Smoky Land. These
two weeks might teach you to love the woods so
you’d go again and again. And a few trips to
the high ranges, once you really got to love ’em
and play ’em right, might make—might do wonders
for you. Please give me the pleasure of
telling the boys that Hughey Gaylord has gone
big-game hunting.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh felt the wave of red spreading in his
cheeks again. He knew perfectly what the old
man had been about to say—“to make a man of
him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Remember,” the Old Colonel urged further,
“you’re an Anglo-Saxon—a white man of
straight descent. It’s a heritage, Hugh. And
it implies an obligation.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d hate it,” Hugh protested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Try it and see. Perhaps—there might be a
miracle.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh drained his glass; then stood up.
“Very well, I’ll start next week,” he said at last
simply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Thus this son of cities gave his promise to go
forth into a man’s land: a land of trial and travail,
of many perils and strong delights, a jagged
mountain land where the powers of the wilderness
still ruled supreme—and yet a place where
miracles might come to pass.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER III</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>The camp-robber, perched on a limb, was in
considerable of a mental turmoil. His mentality
was never of an extra high grade, and to-day his
intellectual grasp had almost failed him. And
the reason was that he had made an astonishing
discovery; and these remote Idaho forests had
suddenly revealed to him a form of life that he
hadn’t had any idea existed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Of course his true name wasn’t “camp-robber.”
In reality he belonged to that noisy, thievish
jay-magpie assemblage that is to be found
in almost all of the great Western forests, and
he had a long and jaw-breaking scientific designation
besides. But on the lower East Side it
isn’t necessary to hunt up the name in full of
Tony the Dip, because the title describes him
better than the name his mother gave him. It
was much the same with the camp-robber. He
got the title from his habits and it fitted him to
perfection.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was rather a gay old bird with considerable
blue and gray in his feathers, and in his several
months of life he had concluded that he knew
these Idaho woods from one end to another. He
thought it would be a long, cold summer day before
he would meet a situation that he could not
immediately handle. He knew just how to look
twice into a cluster of leaves and twigs before he
lighted among them—lest a certain little brown-furred
cutthroat that was rather unpleasantly
known to his family should be waiting in ambush.
He knew how to select a nest-site out of
the reach of a prowling raccoon, and he was as
impertinent and saucy from all this knowledge
as words can tell. Yet out of a perfectly clear
ground, so to speak (it wouldn’t be correct to
say out of a clear sky when referring to one who
habitually lives in the sky) two utterly unknown
and enormous living creatures had revealed
themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The camp-robber had been winging back and
forth through the forest and had flitted down to
the spring for a bath. One of the two figures
was standing erect, shaking his fist at the speeding
form of Spread Horn,—a creature from the
back of which the camp-robber had almost, if not
quite, gathered vermin. The other was lying
down, gazing moodily at an interesting-looking
object that had oozed what had seemed to be
dark blood on the pine needles. In form they
resembled bears; yet he didn’t for an instant
think that they were. They were not deer or
cougar or even overgrown raccoons. He
perched upon the limb to think it over.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet the camp-robber never spends a great deal
of time in such a profitless occupation as
thought. At once his instincts began to get busy
inside of him. He was a born kleptomaniac, and
he was simply fascinated by the number of bright
and interesting things lying about the ashes of
the dead fire. He began to have all manner of
pleasing conjectures in regard to them. Like
many gentlemen-of-fortune in the Parisian underworld
he had a long ancestry of famous criminals;
and now he remembered certain advice his
mother had given him when he was a fledgling in
the nest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If ever you find a camp of men,” one can
imagine the old mother-bird chirping, as she
flicked her tail here and there, “fly right down
into it. You will have more fun than you ever
had in your life before.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>These were men: no other supposition remained.
The camp-robber squawked once, in
enthusiasm, and sailed down to the ground beside
the prone figure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The result was rather astonishing. For the
second at least Hugh Gaylord forgot the late
tragedy to his last bottle of bourbon. A smile
that was singularly winning and boyish played
around his lips.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was not quite Gaylord’s way to smile at
such little things as this. It usually required a
very keen jest from a clever comedian in a musical
comedy to draw a smile from him. Strangest
of all, he hadn’t been in the least in the humor
for gaiety since the first day he had come to these
stern, lonely mountains.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He watched the bird with growing astonishment.
His surprise was really no less than that
of the camp-robber on first beholding the two
men. The bird hopped here and there among
the camp supplies, scratched in the pine needles
for crumbs, and then, with astounding cheek, began
to peck holes in the soap. He had tasted
many things in his months of foraging, but here
was something the like of which he had never
tasted before. The truth was that more than one
camp, here and there through the forest, could
not yield up such a treat as this. Many of the
sparse visitors to the Upper Salmon mountains
regarded the use of soap as they did Christmas,—something
to celebrate once a year.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had not discerned the fleeting form of
the elk in the thickets, and except for his guide,
this bird was the first living thing he had seen
since he had come to Smoky Land. It was not
that the forest did not literally teem with life.
The trouble lay in Hugh’s eyes. The living
things of the great forest are always furtive and
hidden, and they only yield their most priceless
secrets to those who seek them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A man never sees clearly when his brain is
misted and blurred from the fumes of strong
drink; besides, Hugh had not yet gone a half-mile
from camp. He was a tenderfoot in the
raw, and the forest creatures had been able to
discern his heavy tread in plenty of time to get
out of sight. He had been disgusted and annoyed
by the discomforts of camp life, and he
was eager to return to his own kind; his stock
of liquor had been running low and without it he
did not believe he could exist; he spoke loudly
and his spirit was dead within him: and thus the
forest had remained a closed book. His choice
of a companion had not been particularly fortunate
either. Pete had good blood in him, the
blood of as brave and hardy a race as ever lived,
but degeneracy was upon him and his people.
He had been employed as Hugh’s guide, but he
had found it much more convenient to stay in
camp and drink Hugh’s whisky.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian guide would have been a familiar
type to any one of the hardy, farseeing frontiersmen
that occasionally ranged through the forest,
but Hugh himself would have wakened some
wonder. He was still obviously a man of cities.
He wore the outdoor clothes of a gentleman,
which is but rarely the outdoor garb of the
frontier. They were stained with dirt and their
careful crease was destroyed; yet they marked
him as a tenderfoot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The truth was that the Colonel’s experiment
had seemingly failed: the few days that Hugh had
already spent in the far Rockies had wrought no
change in him. He had not found Broken Fang—the
great cougar that had already won a name
through a thousand square miles of Idaho forest—and
he was ready to admit to himself, at least,
that he had made no real effort to find him. He
had fished once, succeeding in breaking a number
of expensive gut leaders and high-grade flies in
the brush along the stream. The remainder of
the time he had lain in camp, wishing he hadn’t
come. Fortunately the two weeks were nearly
over.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The guide brought his wandering mind back
to the disaster of his liquor. “I know where you
can buy quart—take place that one I spilled,”
the Indian said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh’s face brightened. “Lead me to it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just over ridge. Sheep camp there—only
one this part of mountains. Herder’ll have extra
quart or two.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh looked at his watch. “We can get over
and back by dark?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe soon after. Going to be pretty
dusky right away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man spoke true. The twilight was falling
over Smoky Land. The sun was set, the tall
pines seemed to darken above them, the dusk
grew and deepened between the distant trunks.
The immeasurable silence of the mountain night,
broken by such little sounds as only accentuate
the hush, was deepening about them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had no answer at first. For once no
words were at his lips, and it was a good and
portentous sign. He stood listening. Perhaps
because the visit of the camp-robber had been an
impulse to his imagination, perhaps only because
the effect of his last drink was dying within him,
some little portion at least of the age-old magic
of the wilderness twilight was going home to him.
Now that his guide’s voice died away, he was a
little startled by the vastness of the silence.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Far and wide through the forest the wild creatures
were starting forth on their night’s business.
But they moved with stealth. Hugh had
an instant’s dim realization that thickets moved
and rustled in the ultimate reaches of hearing;
that dim shadows wavered so far distant that he
could not be sure of them. The wilderness forces
were coming to life.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He lifted his face. As usual in the twilight
hour, the faintest breath of wind came slipping,
light as a deer-tread itself, from the further
mountains. He saw the two long ridges that
enclosed his particular part of the plateau, and
the last light of day gleamed on their tall, white,
snow-laden peaks. These were the high Rockies;
sentinel mountains grand and austere.</p>

<p class='pindent'>These mountains looked just at hand in the
daylight, but now in the gathering gloom they
seemed to be receding into the infinite distance.
The attention of Hugh Gaylord was not usually
held by mere scenic beauty, but to-night, for a
lone, long instant, he felt vaguely stirred.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then a faint, sharp sound reached him
through the growing silence. It came from an
amazing distance, and but for the fact that all
his senses had been unusually alert he would not
have discerned it at all. All that was left of it
was a faint prick in the eardrums,—a noise that a
beetle might make in the leaves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you hear something?” he asked his
guide doubtfully.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” the Indian replied. “Little noise.
Know who made it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A shot?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. Maybe ’nother hunter, but they don’t
often come here. Over toward sheep camp. But
gotto hurry heap—get whisky—come back while
plenty light to see.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh nodded, and they headed up the ridge.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER IV</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>It was written, by those special jungle gods
that plan entertainment for tenderfeet, that
Hugh Gaylord should get some slight taste of
the real mountains on his walk to the sheep camp.
It was only a mile, but the trail was nothing
whatever like the golf course that Hugh had been
wont to walk around on Friday afternoons. It
was narrow and brown, and hard-packed by the
feet of the wild folk that had been passing up
and down that way since the mountains were
new. They hadn’t been careful to keep the grade
under six per cent. There was also an occasional
rock and a rather frequent dead log that had to
be leaped. Moreover the berry vines scratched
the face and caught at his clothes when the trail
twined between the heavier thickets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had been proud of his physical condition.
He had been under the tutelage of a high-paid
physical director, and he could swing the
Indian clubs a startling number of times without
fatigue. Before that walk was done, however,
the fine edge of his self-assurance had been
somewhat dulled. In the first place, the pace
was rather fast. Pete the guide was inordinately
lazy and a wretched guide, but like most wilderness
men who get their exercise in walking game
trails rather than in swinging Indian clubs, he
knew how to make the long miles slide under his
feet. It is not an accomplishment of a day—that
bent-kneed, shuffling walk, shoulders sagging
and feet falling lightly—and it is far from
graceful. But it clicks out four miles in every
hour through the long mountain day without
fatigue. It carries a man up mountains and into
glens, and he feels fresh at the end. To-night
Pete was in a particular hurry. The devils that
dwell just under the dark skins of all his race
were crying for strong drink. Besides, darkness
would be upon them very soon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The pace took Gaylord’s wind. It brought
queer pains low in his chest and an odd heaviness
in his legs. But for all that, a physician could
have prescribed no better medicine for him. The
sweat leaped from his white skin and felt prickly
at his neck and forehead, and the fumes of alcohol
departed from his brain. The truth was that
in this deepening twilight Gaylord saw more
clearly than any time since his arrival at Smoky
Land.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His senses became more alert, his eyes began
to penetrate deeper into the thickets. He began
to notice dainty mountain flowers, and he took
a singular delight in the tracks of the wild things
that had been left in the trail. Here a coyote
had skulked, here a wolf had raced along in some
chase of death, and here a cougar had crept by
in some dreadful business of a few nights before.
His hearing was sharper, and once the rustle of
leaves above his head called his attention to a
family of gray squirrels, disporting on the limbs.
He found himself watching, with unexplainable
interest, his guide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the first time he marked clearly the silent
tread, the peculiar alertness of his carriage, and
most of all the dark surface-lights in his eyes.
As they headed deeper into the thickets a strange
change seemed to come over the man. Perhaps
the liquor was dying in him, too, or possibly Gaylord’s
imagination was playing tricks upon him.
He received an odd impression that hitherto his
guide had been asleep and had just now
wakened. They were near the sheep camp now;
they could hear the faint bleat of the bedding
animals, and the Indian seemed to forget the
other’s presence. All at once he began to stalk
in earnest. He slackened his pace: Gaylord behind
him slackened his. The moccasined feet
had fallen softly before; now they seemingly
made no sound at all. The dark eyes brightened,
the muscles rippled under the dusky skin, a new
vitality seemed to come over him. The truth was
that this son of a savage race had not undergone
so great degeneration but that he still responded
to the age-old intoxication of the falling night.
It was the hunting hour, and Hugh could imagine
the tawny cougar, Broken Fang, whom he
had come to slay, responding in the same way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Abruptly the Indian paused and held up his
hand. Hugh crept near.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“—— Big animal—close,” the guide whispered.
“Maybe you get a shot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh stood still, listening. Far distant he
heard the usual, faint mysterious sounds that the
early night hours always bring to the wilderness
world; but if anything, the primordial silence
was more heavy and portentous than ever. The
snow peaks still gleamed faintly, and he sensed
their majesty and grandeur as never before. It
was not alone an impression of beauty. Beauty
is an external thing alone: in this moment of farseeing,
he understood something of their mighty
symbolism, their eternal watch over the waste
places. He saw them as they were: grand, silent,
unutterably aloof.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do you know?” he asked, in reply to
his guide. “I don’t hear anything.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The truth was that Pete would have found
considerable difficulty in telling just how he
knew. Rather it was a sixth sense, an essence in
the air that blunter senses could not have perceived.
“We’re near flock—maybe lot of varmints
hanging close. Always is—around sheep.
Don’t know what animal came near just now—cougar,
I think.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe old Broken Fang himself?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know. Heap maybe not. Country’s
big.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Pete was given to telling lies, on occasion, but
he had told the truth for once. Hugh’s eyes
leaped from peak to peak, and he began to realize
something of the vast, tremendous distances of
the region. They pushed on, over the ridge and
through the last of a heavy wall of brush.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They came out on the edge of a small meadow,—one
of those grassy, treeless stretches that are
so often encountered in the high ranges. Silver
Creek ran through it: a stream that was a
“creek” only in the Western sense. In reality
it carried more water than many a famous river.
It was narrow, however, lined with thickets, and
evidently deep and swift. Five hundred yards
beyond the great forest encroached again, and
the meadow was even more narrow, parallel to
the creek. And at the first glance Hugh might
have thought that the meadow was covered with
deep snow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was the sheep. They were bedding down
for the night,—a flock that could not contain less
than three thousand ewes and lambs. They had
crowded so close together that they occupied, in
all, a space hardly more than a hundred yards
square, and the only break in the white drift was
an occasional spot of inky black. These, in a
moment’s inspection, revealed themselves as
black sheep,—animals that occur in every western
flock and are generally used by the herdsmen
as markers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Their numbers staggered Hugh. He wondered
how any one herder could care for them.
And he was suddenly amazed at the strange
thoughts that flooded him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The truth was that Hugh was an exceedingly
sensitive man, finely tuned to all manner of external
impressions. Something about that
snowy band touched a side of his nature of which
he had never been aware before. He couldn’t
quite identify the thoughts that stirred him.
They dwelt in an unknown realm of his being;
he grasped for them but always they flitted
away. He held hard on himself and tried to
understand. The sheep bleated, the shadows
grew over the distant mountains. He began to
think that the plaintive bleat of the sheep was
playing tricks upon his imagination. It sounded
to him almost as a direct appeal for help and
protection. He realized at once the truth of a
fact he had heard long ago,—that sheep, above
all other domestic animals, are dependent upon
men for their very lives. A horse may run freely
in the waste places, fighting off with slashing
fore feet and terrible teeth such wild enemies as
molest it. The cattle can range far in comparative
safety: for even the great grizzly has been
known to avoid the horned steer. Even the hogs,
half-wild in the underbrush, have some means of
self-protection. These sheep had none.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the thoughts he had went deeper than
that. He was dimly aware of a vague symbolism,
a realization that in this mountain scene
could be read some of the great, essential truths
of life. He had a curious impression of being
face to face, for the first time in his life, with
realities,—in spite of the paradoxical fact that a
vagueness, seemingly a bewilderment, was upon
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All his life Hugh Gaylord had dwelt in cities.
He had traveled far: sometimes in motors, usually
in luxurious sleeping cars, occasionally in
steamships. Yet he had never really been outside
of cities. He knew the hurrying throngs, the
great buildings, the busy streets. The shops, the
theaters, the gaiety had been acquaintances as
long as he could remember. He had never
dreamed of a world without these things. Yet,
in an instant, all of them seemed infinitely distant.
Strangest of all, they suddenly didn’t
seem to matter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was an impression that all his life there had
been a cloud before his vision, and all at once he
could see clear. Here, not in those swarming
cities, was reality. The cities had been built in a
day; the other factors that had been so necessary
in his life—his clubs, his motor cars, his amusements,
even much of the great world of business—were
merely mushroom growths of a little
handful of centuries that men called the age of
civilization. Strangely, they no longer seemed
to him the basic things of existence. Rather
now, for the first time in his days, he was face to
face with life,—life in its simplest phases, with
all its unrealities and superficialities swept away.
This was no vista of the present: this scene of the
white sheep bedding down for the night in the
dim light of the herder’s fire. Rather it was an
image of the uncounted ages. All the basic elements
of life were here: the flocks, the herder’s
little shelter, the fire glowing in the falling darkness,
the watchful shepherd dog guarding the
lambs, the beasts of prey lurking in the growing
shadows.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was nothing here to perish or change.
It had been the same for uncounted centuries,—since
the first dim days when the nomads drove
their flocks over the plains of Asia. Cities are
born, grow great, are cursed with wickedness,
and perish. The flocks still wander on the hills.
Men catch new fancies, follow new teachings,
build new orders, and pursue new ways. The
firelight of the herder still glows in the twilight.
Civilization rises and falls like the tide. The
beasts of prey still lurk in the thickets to slay the
sheep. Fashions, hobbies, pleasures, habits and
modes of life, faiths and doctrines, even kingdoms
and palaces start up, flourish, change and
die,—and still the shepherd dog keeps his
watch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was suddenly called from his reverie by the
voice of the guide beside him. “Fire’s about
out,” the man said. “Time herder put on more
fuel.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a commonplace remark, yet it compelled
Hugh’s attention. His startled eyes
turned to the Indian’s impassive face. “It’s not
cold to-night,” he replied. “What’s the need of
the fire?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian made no immediate reply. He
did, however, hold up his hand. Hugh listened.
Somewhere back of them in the thicket a twig
broke with miniature explosion. Then two
leaves rustled together.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s why,” the Indian said. “Keep off
varmints.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that instant the dog discerned them and
came barking toward them. He was a beautiful
shepherd—from his unusual size evidently a
crossed breed—and the light was still good
enough for them to see his lustrous coat, his
powerful form, his intelligent head, his fine brush
that he carried high. The dog slowed to a walk,
and Hugh spoke to him. A moment more the
animal was at his knees.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had always been a dog-lover—giving
his regard to an ill-mannered, savage German
police dog that lived a parasitical life at his city
house—and he knelt quickly to caress the shepherd’s
head. And for the second time that night
he had a series of impressions that he could not
trace or name.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They arose from the behavior of the dog. The
animal seemed oddly nervous and shaken, and
the great, brown, lustrous eyes were full of
singular appeal. He ran from them a little way,
barking, then returned as if he desired them to
follow him. “What’s the matter, old boy?”
Gaylord asked. “What’s up?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog barked again, coming to his arms for
more petting. Then the Indian dropped to his
knees with a curious little cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Pete the guide had an exceedingly good command
of English for a half-breed. But in that
moment of astonishment the use of the language
fell away from him, and his only utterance was
an exclamation in his own almost-forgotten
tongue. He rubbed his hand over the animal’s
shoulder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, Pete?” Hugh asked quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s creased. Dog’s been shot—bullet took
away a little skin.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The shot we heard?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. That rifle shot. The dog shot with
pistol.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And how in the world did you find that
out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not know sure—looks heap like a scratch by
small-caliber bullet. Couldn’t hear pistol shot so
far.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve heard,” Hugh said thoughtfully, “that
it isn’t good form—for a herder to shoot at his
own dog.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe not that,” the Indian went on. His
tone was so strange and flat that Hugh whirled
to stare at him. “Fire’s burning out too—sheep
getting restless. Maybe better see where herder
is.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you suppose he’s in his shelter
tent?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll look and see.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They started out into the clearing, the dog
running in front of them. The sheep, after the
manner of their kind, paid no attention to them.
They walked swiftly toward the little tent beside
the stream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog stopped, sniffing at something that
lay in a little clump of thicket. When still a few
paces distant, Hugh thought it was one of the
black sheep, separated from the flock. The
Indian, however, made no such mistake. And
he hardly turned to glance at it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The herder’s other dog,” he explained.
“Knew there ought to be two. Better shooting
this time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh felt a little stir of excitement. The
black dog had been slain by a small-calibered
bullet, and his body was still warm. The Indian
increased his pace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A second more, and they were at the door of
the tent. It was hard for them to see clearly at
first. The shadows were quite deep inside. And
at first they were only aware of a heavy, strange
silence that seemed to grow and deepen as they
stood looking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The herder was not standing up to greet them.
Neither was he busy at any of his late-evening
tasks. They made out his figure dimly, sprawled
on his blankets in one corner of the tent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“By Jove!” Hugh exclaimed. “I believe
the beggar’s asleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he didn’t speak quite the truth. In reality,
he believed something far different. It is
the way of a certain type of man to avoid at all
costs any appearance or semblance of hysterics
or sensationalism. Hugh was of that type, and
he unconsciously shrank from the utterance of
his true beliefs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not asleep,” the Indian replied bluntly. He
stopped, walked into the tent, and turned the
man’s body in his hands. No wonder the camp
fire was dying. Its tender—the sheep herder—had
been shot and killed a few moments before.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER V</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh Gaylord had never known a more
mysterious hour than that in which the darkness
fell over the sheep camp. At the end of it he
felt as if he had lost himself in a dim and eerie
dream and only the eternal reality of the sheep,
bedding down and bleating in the falling shadows,
made it credible to him. But the mystery
did not lie in the qualities of the scene itself.
Rather it was in his own attitude toward them:
a feeling of familiarity and long acquaintance
that he could not understand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It all seemed so natural and real. Even the
dim twilight and the glow of the dying fire
seemed something vividly remembered from long
ago. Yet there was nothing here of the world he
knew, the world of cities and gaieties and
throngs. There was nothing in his past life to
explain the intimacy he felt. At the edge of the
little meadow the dusk deepened between the
trees. The strong profiles of the pines dimmed
and blurred, the distant peaks receded—with a
curious effect of actual motion—into the further
recesses of the twilight. Here and there the stars
were pushing through, and he suddenly regarded
them with some wonder. He couldn’t ever remember
noticing them in particular before.
Perhaps the smoke that ever hung over his city
mostly obscured them; possibly he had never had
occasion to think about them. Now he was
startled by the same curious sense of familiarity,—as
if he had lain beneath them a thousand-thousand
years and they were old friends come
back to talk to him again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They grew inexpressively bright. Their numbers
increased, they filled the sky, they grouped
themselves in geometrical patterns and designs,
dropping down as if on invisible threads to the
spires of the distant pines. For one little instant,
as he raised his eyes aloft, he was an astrologer
of old, and a knowledge of the ages was
upon him. He felt stirred to the depths of his
being.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He dropped his eyes to regard the sheep. The
outline of the separate animals was altogether
lost by now: they were just a dim, white mass
in the faint glow of the fire. It was the same
as always: they had all bedded down for the
night. He saw the light spring up in the herder’s
tent as the guide lighted a candle, and this
was familiar too.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian came out and with strong, steady
strokes began to break wood for the fire. The
swarthy face looked unusually dusky in the red
glow of the coals. As yet the two men had not
discussed the grim find in the tent. There had
been scarcely nothing to say in regard to it.
Hugh felt no especial excitement or awe: he had
been almost as cold and impassive in regard to
the tragedy as Pete himself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Such an attitude might have been expected in
the guide, but it caused some self-wonder to see
it in himself. Pete was a wilderness man, and if
there is one lesson to be learned in the primeval
forest it is the reality and the inevitability of
death. He was used to death. He had seen it
every day. All night long the ancient war of the
wilderness waged on, and many were its casualties.
The night shuddered with them: the agony
of the deer in the cougar’s claws; the crunch of
fangs when the wolves tracked down their game;
even the shrill, terrible death-cry of the birds
when the climbing marten overtook them on their
perches. Not for nothing does the buzzard
watch all day from the clouds. <span class='it'>He knows</span>; and
whoever listens to the wilderness voices knows
too. The wild, despairing song of the pack, the
wail of the coyote, even the murmur of the pines
is a song of death, immutable and dark, at the
end of their little days. But what did Hugh
know of these things? He had always lived a
sheltered life. Yet now he felt no horror, no
excitement, only the realization that he was face
to face with reality at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The guide had heaped fuel on the fire and it
threw a bright glare over the whole camp. Hugh
could even make out the dark border of the forest
at the extremities of its glow. Then the Indian
turning back into the tent, Hugh entered also.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then the shot we heard was the one that
killed this man?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. Pistol killed dog. Maybe we too far
to hear shot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And you haven’t any idea—what could have
been the motive, the reason for killing him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes——” The Indian paused and stared
down at the still form.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you think it was?” Hugh spoke
very quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Big fight—over the range,” Pete explained
with difficulty. “This big cattle country—cattlemen
always try to keep out sheep. Maybe
other reasons too, but that began it. Always
shooting—cattlemen and sheepmen. This first
flock anywhere near—first in this part of Smoky
Land.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then it was just cold-blooded murder.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. No signs of a fight. Maybe shot him
through tent door, then tried to kill dogs. Killed
one, wounded other. Now I cook supper.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian, wholly without emotion, began to
take stores from the dead herder’s grub-box.
He noted that the man’s supplies seemed almost
gone, only a few potatoes, a small piece of bacon
in an oiled paper, and a little flour remaining.
The guide saw his look of question and made explanation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Camp-tender come soon,” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And who is the camp-tender?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Each sheep camp has two men. One herder.
The other packs in supplies—food for herder,
salt for sheep. Come every two weeks, maybe
sooner, and camp-tender due here pretty soon.
But he’ll find—plenty sheep dead.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For once Hugh did not have to ask questions.
The guide’s last few words explained, in a measure,
the motive for the murder. Without a
herder and with only one dog left to care for the
flocks, the beasts of prey would find easy hunting.
“But we’ll stop that game,” Hugh said decidedly.
“To-morrow morning—to-night, if you
think we can make the trail, we’ll go in and take
this man’s body to the coroner. Then the sheep
owner can send up another herder.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh looked up to find an odd, grim little
smile at the guide’s lips. It was a thing to notice:
this dark savage was not given to smiling.
“You don’t know sheep,” he explained. “You
don’t know Running Feet—what he can do in
one night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>By intuition more than by actual interpretation
of the words Hugh understood. He studied
his guide with growing wonder. For the second
time that day Pete had dropped back into his
own speech. True, in this case the language itself
was Hugh’s own, but the idiom was, beyond
all denial, savage. He had revealed for an instant
something of the strange poetry of the Indian,
as well as the Indian’s imaginative interpretation
of the wilderness. Running Feet,
past all doubt, referred to some of the predatory
animals that habitually preyed on the
sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“In other words—if we hadn’t discovered this
murder, the flock would be practically wiped out
by the time the camp-tender got here?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe all gone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Even if they send up a man right away there
will be some losses.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We start to-morrow,” Pete explained laboriously.
“To-morrow sunset before we reach
tel—tel—talk-over-wire? Another sunset, maybe
another sunrise, before herder can come all long
way. Plenty likely can’t get no one. Cattlemen
rich—mighty—many. Maybe no one want
the job.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And we can’t start to-night?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Trail too dark. Maybe couldn’t catch the
horse. Run fast in the dark.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh turned quickly. “What horse do you
mean?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Pete smiled again, very dimly. “Eyes maybe
half blind. Horse grazing just inside the forest,
just outside meadow. Herders always have one
horse, maybe two.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had not noticed: his eyes were not
trained to penetrate the thickets as those of the
Indian. And at once he made up his mind as to
the morning’s work. After all, it was only decent
to get word to the owner of the flock as soon
as possible. He would not permit his own hunting
trip to stand in the way. It was true that he
had been looking for a good excuse to return to
civilization, and now he had it; but it was not
without some unexpected regrets. He had received
a new point of view in this visit to the
camp, and he felt that he would enjoy a few
more days in the evergreen forest. But even the
Old Colonel would understand why it was necessary
that he change his plans. In the morning
they would catch the horse, place the herder’s
body upon it, and go down with their story to the
settlements. He wondered if there would be a
bereaved family to face; he hoped that this, at
least, would be spared him. The murdered man
looked like a South-European, evidently of the
class of shiftless and uneducated men from which
most flock owners have to recruit their herders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His mind flew back to the Old Colonel, sitting
in the Greenwood Club. Some way, the memory
of the old man was more clear than any time
since he had come. It seemed to him that he
could remember, word for word, all that the old
sportsman had told him. Curiously he had not
remembered being so impressed at the time. In
some dim under-consciousness he realized that
there would be further instructions for him now;
but just what they were he did not permit himself
to guess. He was eager to return,—go back
to God’s country.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After the simple meal, the guide prepared to
go back to the camp after some of the more valuable
of the camp supplies and Hugh’s bedding.
“And where do you expect to sleep yourself?”
Hugh asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian pointed to the herder’s bed, as if
that explained the matter completely. And,
after all, why not? This was no time for nonsense
and hysteria. For once in his life, there in
that far sheep camp, Hugh felt that he was down
to facts.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He heard the departing footsteps of the Indian
fading slowly to a dim whisper infinitely
distant. He was alone. He awoke with a start
to the fact that he was really alone for the first
time in his life. At this hour, in his own city, he
would be either at his club or at dinner, in each
case surrounded by his fellow human beings.
Servants slept within a few doors of his room at
his own house; his pleasures had always been of
a sociable nature. On previous nights in the
wild he had his guide: what loneliness he might
have felt was forgotten in the fumes of strong
drink. For the first time in his life, it seemed to
him, Hugh had a chance to become acquainted
with himself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His thoughts were singularly clear as he sat
beside the camp fire. He looked back over his
past life, and it seemed to him that he was looking
for something in it that he could not find.
He didn’t know quite what it was. He wasn’t
sure why he felt such a sudden, overpowering
need for it. Perhaps the name of it was <span class='it'>justification</span>,—and
yet he could not have told what was
the high offense he wanted to justify. There
beside the sleeping flock new knowledge came to
him, a realization of the great themes and purposes
of existence never known before. He felt
vaguely uneasy about his wasted days, wishing
that he could see some destination, some height,
some star to which they were pointing. He had
an obscure feeling that all his life he had shirked
responsibility; and stranger still,—that in the
deep realms of his spirit he was shirking it now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The great shepherd dog came and crouched
beside him, and the man held the soft head in his
hands. His thought went back to the pedigreed,
savage, characterless dog that he himself owned,
and unconsciously he compared the animals.
The thought returned to him again and again,
try as he might to repel it. It haunted and disturbed
him, and he didn’t know why. His own
dog had won numerous ribbons at the dog shows,
he had been bought at a fabulous price, and his
pedigree went back many generations. Yet by
what fairness could the two animals be named in
the same breath? One was a slacker: the other
a brave and faithful servant of a great cause.
One was an ornament in a dog show: the other
guarded—with his life if necessary—the grazing
flocks. From dawn till dark he was at his toil,
through the blasting heat of summer and the
bitter winter cold, watching through the night
and running through the day. Hugh was not
blind to the fact of his present fidelity: that although
his master lay murdered and he himself
had been slightly wounded, the brave animal still
kept his watch over the sheep. He had been
busy at it when the two men had come, and even
now his intelligent eyes studied the shadows of
the encroaching forest. Hugh felt a sudden
glow in his heart. His hands pressed tighter at
the soft ears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A word came to Hugh’s lips and he spoke it in
the silence. “Service,” he said softly. “Old fellow,
you give <span class='it'>service</span>.” Suddenly he knew that
this was the great debt that all living things
owed: service in the great cause of existence that
no man fully understands. He tried to remember
what service he himself had given. Dim regrets
swept over him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He rose to throw more wood upon the fire;
then stood listening to the voices of the forest.
They were so faint and obscure that he had to
strain to hear them. It was strange that he had
been deaf to them before. They came whispering
through the mighty silences, and they filled
him with haunting memories. At first the
crackle of the fire had obscured them, but as he
waited the separate tones became more distinct
and permitted some measure of interpretation.
He heard the rustling of the thickets, the noise
of flicking leaves dim as eyelids winking against
a pillow, the sad murmur of the pine limbs,
scraping together. Behind them all was the
faint murmur of the wind,—a little wind that
had sprung up in the snow fields and was making
a secret march down through the thickets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Something of the same sense of familiarity
that had come to him on first observing the sheep
returned to him now. It seemed wholly natural
that he should be sitting here in the silence, beside
the flocks.—Throughout the ages men of his
breed had sat the same way, the firelight playing
on them, the faithful dog beside them. The wind
whispered and stirred in the wilderness just the
same, the white sheep slept. Watching the
flocks,—the phrase was as old as the mountains
themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet for a moment he found it hard to believe
in the dangers of which the guide had spoken:
dangers that would soon exterminate the flock
except for the protection of herders and dogs.
No scene could be more peaceful: the dark forest
so lightly stirred by the wind, the river singing
past, the soft firelight, the stars in the sky. The
breath of the night was sweet and cool; surely
there would be no hurry about notifying the flock
owner of the herder’s death. He turned again
to the dog. “You can take care of them, can’t
you, boy?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He glanced down, then stiffened with excitement.
For once the dog did not seem to hear
him. The animal had got up and now was
standing braced, every nerve and muscle alert,
gazing into the shadows beyond the river.
Hugh’s hand fell on the shaggy neck, but the
animal didn’t start. And the hair stood stiff like
quills at the shoulders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, boy?” Hugh asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog made no answer. Instead, a strange
and terrible reply came from the wilderness. It
was a dreadful, a commanding voice, and it
seemed to freeze the whole forest world with horror.
It obliterated the wind and silenced all the
little voices to which Hugh had listened with
such delight a moment before. It was a long,
wild scream, beginning low in the scale and rising
to an incredible height.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For innumerable seconds, it seemed to Hugh,
the same crescendo note was maintained. The
air seemed to shudder. Then, with great soaring
leaps, the scream dropped away into a long,
singsong whine. Slowly this faded, growing
dim and more dim, until it was just a dying
whimper in the air. Hugh couldn’t tell exactly
when the voice ceased. He had a strange impression
that it still continued, only so dim and
fine that human ears were not tuned to receive it.
Then the wilderness silence closed down again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog leaped forward, barking, and Hugh
found himself erect, with his rifle in his hands.
In his own heart he knew this wilderness voice.
If he did not know the breed that uttered it, at
least he realized its savagery, its age-old menace.
There is no utterance that pen can describe more
wild and weird than some of the twilight cries of
the coyotes; yet Hugh was inclined to think that
another, more deadly animal had spoken in this
case. On a few occasions he had heard members
of his club—back from hunting trips in the West—describe
the cries of the cougars or pumas: one
of the most distinctive and awe-inspiring of all
the wilderness voices. It is not heard often.
Many men have lived years in the forest without
ever hearing it at all. But once heard it is never
forgotten. Hugh believed that he had heard it
now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And it had meant more to him than the mere
night cry of an animal. It typified to him the
very spirit of the wilderness. It was the voice
not alone of a hungry creature, stalking in the
shadows, but—in his thought—it expressed all
the ancient terror of the darkness, the primeval
forces that war with man.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Nothing had changed. Still the sheep slept
in the meadow and a great beast of prey menaced
them from the shadowed forest. The long conflicts
against the powers of the wilderness had
not yet been won: the shepherds of Judea might
have known the same cry. The fire burned low,
and it seemed to Hugh that the shadows gathered
menacingly about the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps Broken Fang himself had spoken.
Besides its menace and savagery the voice had
been also a living expression of power and pride
that only one of the greatest of wilderness creatures
would possess. No craven coyote, he believed,
could utter such a ringing challenge.
The dog raced around the flock, seemingly ready
to protect them with his life. No wilderness
voice was so terrible as to frighten him from his
watch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then, at the most wonderful thought of
all, Hugh’s heart gave a great leap in his breast.
Watching the flock! That was it,—he was
watching the flock himself. True, the dog was
still on guard, fearless and constant in his vigil,
but he could not claim all the guardianship of
the sheep. It was his own presence as much as
the growlings of the dog that kept the puma at a
distance. Except for him, white fangs even now
would be tearing at the throats of the lambs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the first time in his life he was <span class='it'>serving</span>.
Was not his gun resting in his hands? For once
in his life he was bearing arms in the oldest war
that mankind knows,—the war against the menace
of the wild. The blood leaped and sang in
his veins.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>In the hour before Pete, the guide, returned
with camp supplies to the sheep camp, Hugh
had a chance to observe various things about this
mountain land of which he had never been aware
before. He sensed, for really the first time, the
mystery of the forest in the darkness. The domain
of man, it seemed to him, extended just to
the limits of the little meadow where the sheep
were bedded: beyond that lay the Kingdom of
the Wild. He saw, with an inner gladness and
stir, the long outline of the high range against
the pale western sky,—the one part of the firmament
the darkness had not yet completely over-spread.
The peaks seemed to rise to the upper
reaches of the heavens; between them he could
see the sweeping concave line, rough-edged, of
the pine forests. He learned certain things concerning
the way the firelight leaps into the
shadow and the darkness comes racing back. He
heard the various overtones, known only to a
woodsman, in the crackle of the fire. At the end
of the hour he beheld an even greater mystery.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At first it was just a smear of silver, suddenly
catching his eye, in the darkness of the east. It
grew, it extended; clouds were ensilvered by it
and broken apart; it gleamed with indescribable
beauty, and in a moment it evolved into the
moon. The orb rose higher, the beams slanted
down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the enchantment of the forest only seemed
to deepen beneath it. Only at intervals could
the beams penetrate between the trees, and the
silver patches that came, now and then, between
the trunks only mystified the eyes. And it soon
became an indisputable fact that these patches
were not motionless and unvarying in outline as
Hugh might have expected. Sometimes they
blended and moved; and once or twice a swift
shadow flicked across them. There was only one
explanation. Living creatures—beasts of prey
such as always linger about the sheep flocks—hovered
at the border of darkness ready to swoop
forth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Pete returned soon after and began upon the
simple tasks of the night. He went to the edge
of the forest, returning with a bundle of fir
boughs for Hugh’s bed. He chopped more fuel,
and once he mystified the Eastern man by some
hurried business in the dead herder’s tent. He
seemed to be making a frenzied search for something
that he needed very badly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He found it at last, and a moment of drama
resulted when he came forth into the firelight.
A dark bottle was clutched in each of his hands.
Hugh glanced at them, then looked with even
greater interest at the deep lines in the guide’s
face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve found ’em,” the Indian told him eagerly.
“Knew sure he had ’em somewhere. Fire
water.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The blood leaped once in Hugh’s veins, and
a great desire seemed to set fire to his brain.
For a moment it seemed to cost him all power of
thought. His hand started to reach forward.
Then, almost as if the gesture had been inadvertent,
he drew it slowly back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He smiled; and his eyes gave no sign of the
vision that was before them. The Indian’s sight
was keen, but he had no realization of the grim
and terrible battle that was being waged in the
man’s own soul. There was no outward indication
of the convulsive wrench that had been necessary
to draw his hand back to his side. Even
in that mountain silence, voiceless as the interstellar
spaces, the Indian could not hear the voice
of demons, shrieking within the man.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The truth was that Hugh had just been given
a glimpse into his own soul: a sight that he had
never really had before. He did not know from
whence such power of vision came. It was something
the wilderness had taught him in the hour
that he had watched the sheep. He had always
been ready to deny that strong drink had any
hold upon him whatsoever. He believed that he
had always drunk heavily because there had been
no reason for doing otherwise. That such a hold
could exist upon any one of the self-reliant, aristocratic
circle in which he moved was simply one
admission that would never be made, but had
rather been linked with the offensive sentimentality
that has constituted so much of the hue and
cry of over-officious prohibitionists. Yet in one
single vivid second of introspection he knew the
truth. In this hour when all his best instincts
warned him to abstain, the craving was almost
too terrible to resist.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he won that fight at last. He would have
been ashamed to admit it, but little, icy sweat-drops
had come out upon his forehead. And
the victory left him curiously sobered. For the
first time in his life, it seemed to him, he knew
Hugh Gaylord as he really was.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The guide still stood waiting. Hugh’s eyes
swept to the flock. The two of them were on
guard to-night, and this was no time to blur the
senses with heady liquor. A hard task awaited
them on the morrow. Besides—it was dead
man’s drink.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Put it back,” Hugh directed quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian stiffened, and his dark face grew
sullen. Hugh watched him coldly. It looked
like mutiny, and Hugh might have wondered at
his own composure, his confidence in his own
ability to win this battle, too.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t put ’em back,” the guide retorted.
“He—won’t need ’em now. Why put ’em
back?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The reason why,” Hugh explained in a passionless
voice, “is because I said so. I remember—I’d
forgotten it until now—that there’s a
national law against giving whisky to Indians.
Besides—you’ve got work to do to-morrow, and
I want you to be fresh.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was the first time since his arrival in Smoky
Land that he had mentioned the man’s race. He
knew that he ran the risk of wakening savage
anger in the Indian’s breast. Yet he was willing
to take that risk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What you got to say about it?” the Indian
responded insolently. “We go back to-morrow.
Job’s over. You ain’t given it to me. I found
it. Come on—maybe take a little drink together.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that instant Hugh remembered that he was
of a dominant race, and the familiarity of the remark
grated somewhat unpleasantly upon him.
He got up rather leisurely. He felt that in case
of emergencies he preferred to be upon his feet.
“Put the bottles back,” he said again. “I happen
to be in command of this expedition. If
you don’t obey, I’ll fire you right here—and you
know what that would mean as far as ever getting
a job as guide again. Put ’em back and put
’em back quick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian’s expression changed. The sullenness
gave way to surprise; then—to some
measure, at least—to respect. He turned and
walked back to the tent. Then Hugh heard his
powerful strokes as he cut more fuel for the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh went to bed soon after this, and the
night hours began their stealthy march, one after
one, across the spaces of the wilderness. The
two men had only a few more sentences of conversation.
The silence and the mystery had
seemingly taken out of Hugh all desire to talk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You told the truth, Pete, when you said this
job was almost over,” Hugh remarked from his
blankets. “And I’ve been thinking of something.
If you’d help me load it on, I might be
able to pack that poor devil down to the settlements
by myself. You could stay here, and I
could hunt up the flock owner and get him to
give you a steady job as herder. He’d be grateful
enough to you for staying to watch his sheep
so that he’ll gladly do it. How would you like
that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian grunted. “Me no sheep herder,”
he said distinctly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh marked the tone with some surprise.
Its inference could not well be mistaken. Evidently
Pete felt himself much above such an occupation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought you might like to be,” Hugh responded
pleasantly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. Only dagoes and Mexicans sheep
herders. I’m a guide. Other herder got shot.
Maybe I get shot too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh didn’t pursue the subject further.
After all, he couldn’t blame the man. By the
code of the West it was degrading work; besides,
the war with the cattlemen made it as perilous
an occupation as could well be imagined. The
glimpse of the still form that the guide had rolled
in a blanket and which now lay outside the tent
door was evidence in plenty of this fact.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He lay on the buoyant, fragrant fir boughs,
watching the dancing shadows. The wilderness
stirred and whispered with life. The sheep
slept. The moon that had looked upon many
shepherds shone on his face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This same moon meant good hunting to the
wild creatures that ranged the forest about the
little meadow. It was hard for them to work in
the utter darkness. And one can only imagine—because
no naturalist has ever yet been able to
know in full the inner natures of animals—the
thrill and the exultation that had passed from
border to border through the wilderness world
when the great white disk first rose above the
mountains.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The hunting hour” was the word that passed—in
the secret ways of the forest—from mouth
to mouth. The wind seemed to carry it, and the
whole wilderness thrilled and pulsed with it.
Wild, hot blood leaped in savage veins; strange
terrible lights sprang up in fierce eyes. “It is
time to start forth,” the whisper passed: and the
whole wild-life kingdom seemed to go mad.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a rapturous, an exultant thing, and human
beings—jaded with too many centuries of
repression that men call civilization—find it hard
to understand. Only those who have stood in a
duck blind watching a flock of mallard swing
down toward the decoys, only those who have
lain pressed to the slide rock and seen the mountain
sheep, the incomparable Bighorn, in a long
file against the snow, or those who have beheld
the waters break and explode as the steelhead
strikes can comprehend this wilderness ecstasy
at all. The smells on the winds, the little hushed
noises in the thickets, the startled waverings of
shadows all added their influence; and the blood-lust
came upon the beasts of prey.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was their long-awaited hour. It was their
time of triumph: stealth and strength, fang and
claw, the stalk in the shadows, the leap, the blow,
the feasting in the moonlight. The she-wolf
came creeping from her lair, her cubs behind her,
and all of their eyes were just so many twin circles
of green light in the darkness. Were not
the deer feeding on the ridges? The coyotes
skulked in the shadows about the sheep camp;
the lynx went stealing toward the perches of the
mountain grouse. The hunting fever spares
none of the flesh-eaters, and from the smallest to
the great—from the little, deadly, white-fanged
mink following a rabbit’s trail beside the river to
the mighty grizzly, stalking a cow elk in the
thicket—they felt in their veins the age-old stir
that is ever new.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But there was one resident of Smoky Land
that felt it more than any of his neighbors. In
the first place he was a feline,—and that means
that he was just a bundle of singing, vibrant,
hair-trigger nerves. For sheer sensuality there
are no creatures on earth to equal the cats,—and
he was king and monarch of all the breed. The
animal that catches his prey by an exhausting
run, a simple test of wind and limb, cannot from
the nature of things feel the wild rapture and
suppressed excitement of one that stalks and
leaps from ambush; and the cats are the foremost
exponents of this latter method of hunting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were certain private reasons, too. Part
of the hunting fever is due to pride, a sense of
power and might. A lowly skunk, trotting
along looking for fledglings, must have a hard
time persuading himself he is very great and
powerful, but this oversized monarch of the cat
family had no difficulty whatever. In his time—and
his years were rather more than is best in
the wilderness—he had seen the bull elk turn
from his path, and <span class='it'>that</span> is a sight to pass down
to one’s cubs. Even the old black bear, the
honey-grubber who is, after all, the most lovable
spirit in the forest, had been known to speak politely
when the two of them met on the trail.
Those who know Growl-in-the-throat can appreciate
what a triumph this was,—because he rarely
goes to any particular trouble to be polite to any
one. This didn’t mean, however, that even in his
best days the great cat cared to engage him in a
fair fight. Growl-in-the-throat was a honey-robber
and an eater of fat grubs; he was forgetful
and awkward and given to long weeks of
sleeping; but he was living, forked, chain lightning
in a hand-to-hand fight. No, it was rather
a good thing to keep at peace with Woof.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the coyotes, the lesser felines, even the
wolves—making perfectly good meals off one
another when they got the chance—were all fair
prey to this tawny forest monarch. It made
hunting pleasant. He didn’t always have to be
careful to see that he was not being hunted himself.
It gave him a certain complacency and arrogance,
and he expressed it from time to time
in a long, wild, triumphant scream that lesser
members of his family were ordinarily afraid to
utter, lest it should call their enemies down upon
them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just as the dark came down he had uttered the
cry, and he had tingled with savage ecstasy as it
echoed back to him. He had seen the first glint
of the moon, and the green glare played in his
terrible eyes as he started out upon his hunting.
The moonlight showed him vaguely, huge and
sinuous and graceful past all words, as he stole
through the forest on the way to the game trails
of the ridge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He flattered himself that not even the wild
creatures, dreading or waiting for just this moment,
had ears keen enough to hear him. A perfect
stalk had been his pride, in his younger days,
and he still assumed that he possessed it. Time
was when his stealing feet—in which his terrible
talons were even now encased ready to thrust
forth—fell soft as pine needles on the trail. If
indeed he were past his prime, at this hour at
least—just as the moon rose—he would not admit
it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He opened his savage mouth, and for an instant
the moonlight gleamed on the white teeth.
The forest people could not have mistaken his
identity thereafter. One of the great dog-fangs
had been broken sharply off in some stress of
years before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was the great Broken Fang, the monarch
of the cougars. Was not the trail cleared, for
long distances ahead, of all the lesser hunters?
And yet this triumph brought no pleasure, for it
led to the undeniable inference that his feet had
spoken loudly, rather than whispered, on the
narrow path.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Of the three that lay beside the sheep that
night, Hugh slept lightest of all. He missed
the effects of strong drink. Night after night—more
of them than he liked to remember—he had
gone to bed half-torpid from the after-effects of
the poison in his veins; but to-night he was singularly
alert and watchful. The mountain air got
to him for the first time since he had come to
Smoky Land, and it invigorated him. Besides,
perhaps his mind was too busy with thoughts to
yield quickly to slumber.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Indian came of a race that ordinarily
sleeps lightly as the wild creatures—a habit
learned by uncounted generations in the wild.
It is good—wilderness people know—to be able
to spring out of a dream and be instantly alert
and ready for any crisis. But to-night he neglected
the fire. And of course the late sheep
herder slept soundest of all. Loud must be the
alarm to waken him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The night hours passed, and Hugh stirred and
muttered in his half-sleep. He was troubled
with curious dreams; and even on wakening he
didn’t know quite what they were. It seemed to
him that some one had been trying to tell him
something to which he did not want to listen.
He kept trying to shut his ears, yet the words
got through. They were accusing words, damning
him for shirking a great responsibility that
had been put upon him. He could see the scorn
in the accuser’s face. He was facing some sort
of a test, and he broke beneath it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He would rouse himself, listen to the mysterious
sounds of the night, then drop back to sleep.
He couldn’t get away from a recurring dream
that some terrible Foe was lurking in the shadows
just beyond his vision, ready to swoop down
on one who was very weak and helpless; yet he
wouldn’t stay to fight it off.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Once or twice he got up to mind the fire, and
at such times the night noises reached him with
startling vividness. Dawn was nearing; the
sheep were stirring and uneasy. Once more he
went to sleep. For a little while all his dreams
departed. Then he felt a hand on his shoulder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Get up,” a voice said in his ear. “We got
start now—make it down by night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He opened his eyes. The forest world was
still lost in darkness. True, a faint grayness had
spread over the east, but the moon still rode vividly
in the sky. And, yes, the sheep had got up
and were feeding in the grass.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh leaped to his feet. The guide had already
rebuilt the fire; and the two of them went
about the tasks that were necessary before departure.
Pete caught the horse, Hugh himself
completed the cooking of breakfast that the
guide had already started. He watched with an
extraordinary fascination the grim, certain motions
of the Indian as he prepared the herder’s
body for the day’s journey. The animal was
saddled, the stiffening form tied on. Hugh
helped put out the fire—the last act of a real
woodsman when he breaks camp—and laid out
food for the dog. A few moments more and
they were ready to go.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re sure you won’t stay—and take a job
as sheep herder?” Hugh asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not me,” the Indian replied. “Herder shot—me
shot next.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s no reason for thinking you would be
shot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You don’t know cattlemen—Landy Fargo—José
Mertos—Besides—Pete got other work
to do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps it was true. The guide had other
work to do. Hugh glanced toward the flock.
The animals were not bunched so closely now,
and some of the lambs were feeding at the very
margin of the river. Their numbers, now that
they were widely spread, seemed greater than
ever.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The shepherd dog came running to him, and
Hugh bent to caress him for the last time. He
held the head in his hands and looked into the
brown eyes. The dog’s gaze did not flinch as is
usual when his majesty, man, looks into the eyes
of one of the lower creatures. Instead, Hugh
couldn’t get away from a haunting idea that the
dog’s expression was one of pathetic appeal. It
was almost as if the animal had spoken in words,
and Hugh could not laugh at his own discomfort.
“Aid me,” the dog seemed to say. “Help me
keep my trust. The odds are long against me,
so give me your aid.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog leaped from his arms; then ran forward
a little way, barking, toward the sheep.
But Hugh laughed and called him back again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good-by, old fellow,” he said. “Mind the
sheep!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog whined softly, and Hugh tried not to
understand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’ll be a herder up here in a day or two,
if the owner can procure one. And I’ve left out
food for you. Good-by again, for the last time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the concluding words of that farewell the
animal did not seem to hear. Hugh felt him
stiffen in his arms and saw that the intelligent
eyes were gazing away, over the flock toward the
river. Hugh followed the line of sight, but all
he could see was the shadows, bleached here and
there by the bodies of the sheep. Then the dog
leaped frantically from his arms.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh watched him till the shadows hid him,
saw him encircle the wing of the flock, and race
at top speed toward the river. It was as if a
message had come to him to which Hugh was
deaf, that the dog’s eyes had discerned some occurrence
on the distant river bank that Hugh
himself could not see, and, obedient to a great
law within himself, true to a deathless trust that
had been bestowed upon him, had dashed forth
to give aid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the miracle was no less than Hugh
thought. The dog <span class='it'>had</span> gone to give aid, and no
man may say by what avenue of sense, by what
inscrutable means he knew that aid was needed.
The distance seemed too far for eyesight. There
was no actual voice in the air that Hugh could
hear. On the green bank of the river one
of the ewes raced up and down, bleating pitifully,
evidently in great distress. Hundreds of
sheep were bleating at the same time, and it
seemed hard to believe that the dog could have
distinguished a note of distress, unheard in the
others, in her voice. She seemed to be gazing in
frantic terror down into the wild and seething
cataract.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Far across the meadow Hugh did not hear and
he did not heed. He turned to the guide, waiting
at the horse’s head. “Lead the way,” he
ordered. “There’s no use of our waiting any
longer.”</p>

<hr class='tbk101'/>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang, the cougar, had had a discouraging
night. Never in his long years could
he remember a time of darkness when the hunting
had been so barren of results. Now the
dawn was coming out, and not even a rabbit had
been caught to appease the gnawing hunger
within him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He wouldn’t have liked to admit the true explanation:
that he had seen his best days. The
cougar shares with all living things a resistless
propensity to grow old, and already his years
were many. He had had his day. The deer that
had died in his talons, even the elk that he had
laid low with one lightning, terrible bite to the
throat would make a number not pleasing to
contemplate by lovers of the wild game. It is to
be remembered that an ordinary cougar will kill
two deer a week, year on year, until the buzzards
come to feed upon him. Broken Fang was no
ordinary cougar: for more years than the swan
could remember he had ranged through Smoky
Land, killing as he went. He had felled the
horned cattle; in one starving winter he had
fought Cry-in-the-night, the wolf, and had mastered
him; he had taken the old tusked boar gone
wild in the underbrush. He knew the hunting
craft to the last wile, and time had been when a
cat-tail plume, falling on the reeds, made more
noise than his own step. But he was old: his unusual
size proved that fact. By the same token
was revealed his past prowess: only an animal
that had surpassed in all the wiles of hunting and
self-preservation could live to attain such a
growth. But to-night—the deer had fled from
him before he ever got within leaping range.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wind had been right, the thickets had hidden
his advance, the magic and the thrill of the
hunting hour had been upon him. No human
ear could have discerned his approach on the
winding trail. But the difficulty lay in the fact
that the deer have not human ears, but rather
marvelous receivers as sensitive as the antennæ of
a wireless outfit. Broken Fang was growing old;
some of his marvelous muscle-control was breaking;
and no longer could he accomplish a successful
stalk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The triumph that he had felt the first hour
of the hunt was quite dead in him now. He
would have welcomed any kind of prey. Just
before dawn he had come upon a porcupine; but
even this unprepossessing game had escaped him.
It didn’t make a story that he would care to tell
to his cubs. There is a certain legend, in the
forest, regarding those who cannot catch a porcupine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When Quill-back escapes the hunter,” the
saying goes, “the buzzards will be full-fed to-morrow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The meaning is wholly simple to one who
knows porcupines and buzzards. There is no
more awkward, stupid, guileless creature in the
woods than Quill-back, and the only reason why
the beasts of prey haven’t wiped out his breed centuries
ago is because he is so fiendishly awkward
to kill and eat. One spine in the nose means days
of agony, a few in the mouth is apt to bring on
slow starvation. And when one hunts porcupines,
and they escape him, it means simply that
the hunter is getting so old and so stiff that the
scavengers may dine upon him very soon. In
this case Quill-back crept up a tree and crawled
out to the end of a limb where Broken Fang
couldn’t get him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no more magnificent slayer in the
whole woods than this huge puma, yet he had
gone for a full day without food. And it was not
to be wondered at that—just before dawn—the
blood leaped in his veins anew when he caught
the smell of the sheep flock on the wind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had killed sheep in plenty in his time, only
on the far eastern border of his range. He
hadn’t known that any were to be found in this
part of Smoky Land. They were an easy game
to kill, dying at one little touch to the head or
shoulder, and offering no sport at all to a bold
hunter of deer. Yet to-night he was in no mood
to be discriminating. And it was wholly possible
that the smell of that flock seemed to grant
a new lease of life.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To linger at the outskirts of the band, to kill
when he chose, perhaps even to know that most
terrible of all wilderness lusts,—the feast of
death. All forest creatures know this feast: they
have an inborn passion for it that simply must
almost tear them in twain. In all the world of
carnage and wickedness there is no debauch that
is half so terrible, and the first laws of the forest
have decreed against it. For the death-feast is not
the rational, honest killing of the hunt. Rather
it is the thing that sheepmen dread above all
things else: a perfect orgy of slaying, not for
food but from desire, the tearing-out of a hundred
throats in so many seconds. Yet was not
Broken Fang the monarch of the forest? What
laws were there to restrain him?</p>

<p class='pindent'>His long tail began to lash back and forth;
his fangs caught the dim light of the encroaching
dawn as he crept like a serpent through the thickets.
The smell became even more plain, the
fierce blood leaped even more wildly in his veins.
There was nothing here to fear: no leaping camp
fire to fill him with the age-old awe, no tall form
of the herder on constant guard. He could kill,
kill, kill—as much as he wanted—until the savagery
in his heart was satiated. It was true that
human beings had recently been on guard, but
their smell was dim, and even now they were
starting away, into the forest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He paused, taking full stock of the situation.
Usually at camps such as this there were, besides
the herder with his death-stick, two dogs
that would die before they would permit him to
touch the sheep. He knew something about the
fighting spirit of the shepherd dogs. He knew
their blind courage, their terrible ferocity, and
he knew only one fighting spirit to compare with
theirs,—that with which the she-wolf guards her
whelps. Such dogs always seemed to partake of
man’s own unconquerable spirit and they were
terrible to face. But to-night only one of the
dogs was on guard, and he could find killing in
plenty before they should come to grips.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then he drew up short, scarcely able to restrain
a yowl of disappointment. He was on the
wrong side of the river. A veritable torrent,
deep and swift, flowed between. He came of a
breed that has no love for water. Of course he
could cross in time, he could wander up and
down the bank until he found a dead tree stretching
the full way over, but he was in no mood for
delays. There was a log here, true, slanting
down from his own shore, but it thrust down into
water but a few feet from the bank and offered
no crossing. And his passion almost consumed
him at the sight of a ewe and lamb, just out of
leaping range,—feeding at the very margin of
the river on the opposite bank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He shivered all over with excitement. He
knew already the taste of the red ecstasy in their
veins. He knew—in his dark beast-fancy—the
feel of their soft flesh beneath his own terrible
talons. He lay still, watching greedily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the forest gods were good to him, after all.
He couldn’t see just what happened. The whole
tragedy had occupied but a miniature fraction of
a second. Perhaps the bank gave way, possibly
the sure little feet missed their hold, or a rock
rolled and struck from behind. No matter the
cause, the result was the same: the ewe stood
alone on the margin. The lamb—a white, dainty
creature whose flesh was soft and warm as a
bird’s—had fallen into that raging torrent, had
been swept down the stream, and as if by a
miracle had been hurled into a thatch of dead
sticks and driftwood that had been wedged between
some of the great bowlders of the river
bed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The glaring eyes beheld its struggles and his
own triumph. It was as if the forest gods had
planned the whole disaster for his especial benefit.
The barrier of the river was an advantage
now: such guardians as kept watch over the
flock could not cross those frightful waters to
fight him off. He had only to steal down the
log that slanted into the water, stretch out a paw
to the white struggling figure half-submerged
in the raft of driftwood, and snatch it up to his
own remorseless fangs.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VIII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>For the first dozen paces up the trail Hugh
tried to shut his ears to the frenzied barking of
the dog. He found it hard to believe that the
animal was merely rounding up the sheep, keeping
them in a compact herd as he had been
trained to do. It wasn’t the same cry that he
had listened to before. It had an angry, warning
quality, a threatening note as if it were trying
to intimidate some enemy of the sheep.
Then Hugh began to believe that his own fancy
was carrying him away. For it seemed to him
that the animal’s voice had an actual undertone
addressed to himself,—an appeal for aid before
it was too late.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But, after all, he was not responsible for the
flock. They were not his sheep. He had not
been employed by the flock owner to care for
them; and the idea of Hugh Gaylord, member
of the Greenwood Club, acting as sheep herder
was simply laughable. It was not his war,—that
in which the herder had been struck down. He
was anxious to go back to his own kind, to take
up anew his old carefree life in his home city.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog’s bark rose to a veritable clamor.
Then he came racing back toward Hugh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He approached within twenty feet of him,
barking, then started back toward the river.
Still Hugh did not follow. The dog rushed forward
again and again turned. He didn’t seem
to be able to understand. Always before the
men that he knew hurried to his aid at a time
like this. Hugh felt a sudden rush of blood to
his face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good Lord, Pete,” he exclaimed. “I’ve got
to see what’s the matter with that dog.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He caught up his rifle, then followed the dog
to the water’s edge. The river itself was a thing
to stir the fancies. The dawn had not yet broken
and in the dim, eerie grayness the stream had lost
all quality of reality, all semblance to the sheet
of sparkling water flowing between green banks
that Hugh had beheld the previous night. He
felt a sense of deepening awe. Rather, it seemed
like some river of a Beyond, a sinister and terrible
cataract in a twilight land of souls, a Lethe flowing
darkly at the edge of a Hereafter. To a poet
it might have seemed the River of Life itself,
deep, fretful, full of peril and tragedy, and flowing
from the beginning of the world to its end.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the waters struck the great bowlders of
the river bed the foam gleamed a curious, pale
white in the twilight,—otherwise the waters
would have seemed like a dark void. The dog
raced up and down the bank in excitement, then
half-entered the water. Hugh saw his difficulty
at once. He could not make headway in that
raging torrent, and was trusting to Hugh for
aid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, old man?” he asked quietly, just
loud enough to be heard above the noise of the
waters. “What do you want me to do?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old ewe brushed close to him, as if she
too looked to him for aid. If the light had been
better, he could have seen the despair and agony
in her quiet eyes. He studied closely the white
patches on the river. He did not have the feline’s
eyes, to see plain in the half-dark, and the
dog’s were better able to penetrate the gloom
than his. But slowly he grew accustomed to the
half-darkness, and he knew the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lamb still struggled in the driftwood.
And for one fraction of a second he thought that
he saw something else.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed to him that two strange, sinister
lights suddenly glowed from the thickets on the
opposite bank; then went out. They were close
together, and they were round, and they were
just alike. They were not twinkling lights: but
rather were a strange blue-green like the flame
that plays about an alcohol burner. No human
being could have seen those dreadful blue disks
and ignored them: their terror went too deep for
that. Man knows the terror of lightning, the
dread (as well as the love) of fire, the fear of
flooding waters, but he knows those two twin
circles best of all. They carry him back to the
first great Terror; they waken memories from
the depths of the germ plasm; they recall the
sight of other such fiery spheres, gleaming in the
darkness at the mouth of the cave. Hugh’s heart
seemed to pump an icy stream through his veins.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he forced his growing terror from him and
made a swift study of the currents. The lamb
seemed doomed. There was no wading that
frightful stream. A log sloped down into the
water from the opposite bank, but there was no
way to cross. The only hope lay in hurling himself
into the torrent, fighting his way to the middle
of the stream, seizing the lamb, and swimming
with it to safety.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog could not give aid. The river was a
succession of great rocks and treacherous whirlpools,
the water was icy cold, and in the darkness
a swimmer might easily be swept downstream
to his death. Hugh saw all these things
plainly. In his own heart he sensed an equal
menace in some dim form that waited on the
opposite bank to combat him for those few
pounds of living flesh. And in that dim light he
saw that only a few seconds remained in which
to attempt a rescue. The wild waters broke
against the rocks between which the lamb lay;
and in a few seconds more it would cease its
struggles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was only an animal, a baby sheep that was
one of three thousand, a little armful of warm
flesh that would never be missed. To rescue it
would tax the last ounce of strength in Hugh’s
body. It might very easily cost him his life. It
wasn’t worth it. By all the dictates of good
sense, the thing to do was to turn back, to leave
the dog barking at the water’s edge and the ewe
mourning on the shore. There were no human
spectators to praise him for the deed or condemn
him for its omission. He knew that even if he
were put on trial no sensible man on the broad
earth would hold it against him if he left the
lamb to its fate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet in that moment of inner trial a great and a
serene knowledge came to him. He knew—in
one instant of vision—that it did not lay with the
shepherd to consider abstract issues of life
and death. It was not for him to try to balance
the value of a lamb’s life with his own. His
business was to watch the flock. His work was
to guard the sheep. Nothing could come between.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All the voices of prudence and good sense were
stilled before the voice of his own soul. He was
afraid, but his fear could not come between the
shepherd and his work. He wanted to turn
away; but a power greater than his own will
made him stand fast. The laws of his own being
had given their decree,—and they could not be
denied.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, old fellow,” he said simply to the
dog. “We’ll get the little devil.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog plunged in. It was the voice he had
awaited. The man dropped his coat, his gun,
and the small pack that he wore on his back, then
ran a short distance up the stream. And the
muscles of his body seemed to shiver and vibrate
with strength as he plunged into the dark waters.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang, the cougar, had seen the dog
and the man on the opposite bank, and at first
he had been afraid. He retained enough of his
natural caution not to wish to reveal himself at
once. “Most of all, fear men,” was one of the
first of the long scroll of forest laws, and time
had been when he had shivered and skulked with
fear at just the human smell on the wind. But
to-night he was very hungry. And the game
was almost in his claws.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hadn’t forgotten that he was the master
of the forest, who had felled even the horned
steer. What were these slight figures to stand
against him? Many of the forest laws he had already
broken; he might even yet break the law
that forbade the death-feast,—and why should
he obey now? A slow, terrible anger began to
overcome him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had missed his kill too many times that
night. He felt a blind desire not to run away
but to stay and fight. He crept down nearer the
water’s edge, his glaring eyes on the two figures
on the opposite bank. At that instant he saw
both of them plunge into the torrent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This was the action of the deer when the
wolves pressed them close,—to jump into the
river to escape. These creatures were like the
deer, a breed known to him of old. Little Death
the mink had done the same thing, the night he
had been so hungry and in which the miniature
slayer had slipped between his talons. The river
was always a place of refuge for those that were
afraid. Thus it was plain that if the dog and the
man feared him there was no further cause for
him to be afraid of them. He crept out boldly,
a magnificent, tawny figure in the dim light, on
to the log that led down into the water. His
eyes shone with blue fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps the dog saw him first. He swam with
wide-open eyes. He had jumped in almost opposite
the little pile of driftwood where the lamb
lay and was immediately swept downstream.
Hugh, however, had leaped in farther up, and he
had had a chance to work into the middle of the
current as he was carried down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had always been a strong swimmer, and
he needed that strength now. The water was
icy cold; it gripped him with resistless strength.
He fought it with powerful strokes, but it
seemed to him that he was tossed about like a
straw. Even he headed upstream and out, not
hoping to make headway but only to offset, in
some degree, the incredible power of the current.
He had never done such swimming as this before.
Silver Creek was not at all like the swimming
tank in his athletic club. He gave his whole
strength; and it seemed to him that he was fighting
for his life.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His plan was to seize the log that extended
down into the water, brace himself while he rescued
the lamb, and either climb up the log or be
carried on down and swim to the bank. He
didn’t know that the log was already occupied:
that a great forest creature had come down to
contest the lamb’s life with him. He was full in
the middle of the current, by now; and then,
with a powerful lunge of his body, his arms swept
about the log.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He braced himself, then turned in order to
reach the lamb. He reached for a hold higher
on the log. Something brown, with extended
talons, rested upon the rough bark within a few
inches of his hand, and at first he did not understand.
Then the spray cleared from his eyes,
and he knew the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was not a thing to forget: that wilderness
scene in mid-stream in which Broken Fang and
this man of cities came face to face for the first
time. It made a grim and moving picture: the
magnificent outline of the great cat in silhouette
against the slowly brightening eastern sky; the
lamb, struggling in the little patch of driftwood;
the watching forest, the dark river with its ivory
foam; and the gray half-light of dawn casting
dimness over all. Yet there was no such
folly as mistaking its reality. The form on
the log was not just a shadow, an image, a
drunken fancy. It was as real as the icy touch
of the river and so near that he could see the
creature’s ears, lying flat against the savage
head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh’s head, shoulders and one arm were
clear of the water: a few inches distant gleamed
the white fangs of the puma. The fight for the
life of the lamb was at close quarters at last.
And Broken Fang had all the advantage. He
was above and had room in plenty to strike; he
had only to tap down with his paw or lash out
with his deadly fangs. Hugh, on the other hand,
had braced himself against the log and had only
one arm free.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It came to Hugh that he might give up his
attempt to save the lamb, slip back into the
water, and be carried down out of the reach of
the rending fangs. But even before the thought
went fully home he had taken the opposite
course. Perhaps it was because he was the shepherd—for
the moment at least forgetting and
ignoring all things but his guardianship of the
sheep—and Broken Fang was an ancient enemy.
Perhaps he instinctively realized that if he
turned even for an instant those terrible talons
would lash down at him. His instincts came sure
and true, and he knew he must make no sudden
motions. He began to pull himself upward
toward the great cat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He knew one single moment of blighting terror
when he thought that the cougar was going
to stand its ground. The animal crouched, his
lips drew in a snarl, he raised one foot with extended
claws. He was the great Broken Fang;
and this creature that rose up from the waters
was but a fawn in strength compared to him.
The lamb was almost in his grasp. His sinuous
tail twitched at the tip.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was the most terrible moment in Hugh’s
life, a moment of test in which the basic metal
within the man was tried in the fire. He could
not turn back now. He shouted with the full
power of his lungs; but on the might of his own
eye and will, on the old elemental superiority of
man over the beasts of the field and the fowls of
the air rested life or death. He was of the dominant
breed, and if he forgot that fact for one
instant—in this moment of stress—those white
fangs would lash out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the first time in his life Hugh Gaylord
had to rely on his own manhood for success or
failure. His wealth, his influential social connections,
breeding and birth and class could not
aid him here. It was simply the trial of man
against beast, the power of man’s will against
resistless physical might. If he flinched, if he
turned for an instant, all was lost.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His face was white as white foam, the lines cut
deep like brands, the heart of the man was like
ice. Yet the eyes didn’t flinch. They burned
steady and straight,—into the glowing twin
circles of blue fire just above him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a long, strange moment of silence
in which it seemed that the river flowed like a
soft wind. All the power and strength of his
being was at test. And slowly—snarling at
every step—the puma began to back away up the
log into the thickets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Still Hugh held firm. He waited until the
great cougar was ten feet distant, then his arm
shot out like a serpent’s head toward the lamb.
He seized it in a strong grasp, released the log,
and yielded himself to the full force of the current.
As he swept down he saw the cougar—his
courage come back to him now that the masterful
eyes no longer glared into his—spring out
with a savage snarl to the end of the log. But
he was out of reach now, and safe, struggling
once more against the might of the current.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He fought with all his strength and slowly
worked his way into the shore. The guide came
running toward him: the dog—fifty feet farther
down—pulled himself up, dripping and exhausted,
on the rocky margin. Hugh caught at
the overhanging bushes and slowly he gained the
bank. And with a queer, dim smile he set the
lamb down beside the ewe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed endless moments before he felt able
to speak. His breath seemed gone, he felt weak
as a child, his muscles ached and his wet clothes
chilled him, yet he felt strangely, deeply happy.
He didn’t know why. He was too tired for introspection.
He only knew a great, unfamiliar
joy, an inner peace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t wait any longer for me,” he said at
last when he got his breath. Pete looked down
at him in amazement. Hugh smiled into his
dark eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What you mean?” Pete asked in bewilderment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh smiled again but felt too tired to explain.
There was no use of explanations: he
didn’t know that he could find words for them.
For the moment he had lost faith in words: only
deeds mattered now. He didn’t seem to be able
to tell why Hugh Gaylord, the son of wealth and
of cities, should yield himself to such folly. The
body of the dead herder still lay across the
horse’s back: the fact that another week might
find himself in the same position could not matter
either.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re to go on alone,” he explained quite
clearly. “I’m going to stay here—until some
one comes up and takes my place—and watch
the sheep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For Hugh knew the truth at last. A new
power, a greater strength had risen within him.
His eyes saw clear at last. In that wild moment
in the heart of the stream he had given service,
he had risked all for a cause. None of his old,
soft delights had yielded one part of the pleasure
that had been his as his strong strokes braved the
current; no false flattery had ever been so satisfying
as his victory over Broken Fang. It was
service, it was conquest, it was manhood at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had no sense of self-sacrifice as he made
his decision to stay with the sheep. The joy of
strong deeds does not lie in self-pity. Rather
it was an inner knowledge that he had found
happiness—at least the beginnings of it—and
only a fool would throw it away. He had no
wish to forego the first pleasure that life had
ever given him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He started away into the forest with his sheep.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER IX</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>As the dawn broke over Smoky Land, the
sheep fed farther and farther out from the camp,—a
long, white column like a moving snow field
against the deep dusk of the forest. The light
grew, the last stars faded, the gloom of the underbrush
evolved into distinct browns and
greens; most of the beasts of prey returned to
their lairs. Unlike Hugh they had no love for
these daylight hours. Dawn meant the end of
their reign.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the night has always been the time of
triumph to the hunting creatures. It is the hour
of glory when fang and talon and strength and
stealth come into their own. Now the deer had
left their feeding ground and had gone into the
heavy brush through which even a cougar could
not creep without being heard. The birds had
left their perches, the little underground people
had retired to their burrows. In the nighttime the
dim, sinuous movements of the hunters’ bodies
could hardly be distinguished from the wavering
shadows, but the deer made no such mistake in
the hours of daylight. Many of the flesh-eaters
had not yet killed, and those that had been successful
found no pleasure in leaving their warm,
dripping feasts to the buzzards in the sky. Only
the coyotes and such low-caste people remained
to hunt; and they didn’t stay from choice. With
them it was a simple matter of hunting all the
time, of seeking tirelessly with never a rest, that
kept them fed at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The reason went back to a curse that Manitou
put upon the coyotes in the young days of the
earth. No one knows just what their offense was—whether
they were once dogs who betrayed
men, or the fathers of dogs that betrayed the
wild by selling their sons into the bondage of
men—but not even a tenderfoot can doubt the
severity of their punishment and the depths of
their remorse. Many of the voices of the forest
are dim and small, many of them are inaudible
except to those who give their lives and their
souls to the wild, but the curse upon Running
Feet the coyote is usually made clear in one night
at the twilight hour. For the coyotes do not
keep their afflictions to themselves. Their voice
suddenly shudders out of the half-darkness, a
long wail broken by half-sobs,—infinitely despairing
and sad.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Very few of the wilderness voices are joyful.
Even the whistling of the birds—close observers
find out at last—have a plaintive note that seems
never entirely absent. No man can doubt the
sadness in the wailing cries of the passing geese,—telling
of the bleak, glooming marshes where
they live and die. The winter song of the pack,
the little shrieking of pikas on the sliderock, even
the murmur of the pines are filled with the
ancient sadness of existence, the old complaint of
the pain of living with only Fear and Death at the
end. But none of these voices contain the utter
despair, the incomprehensible sadness of the twilight
cries of the coyotes. Thus wise men know
that they—because of some offense of long ago—have
been accursed among beasts.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They have been exiled to the rocky hills, they
are afflicted with madness in Indian summer,
their pride has been taken from them, and all of
the greater forest creatures treat them with contempt.
They are driven from the game trails,
and thus they have to do their hunting at any
time that offers, early or late. All of the larger
beasts of prey had now gone to their lairs and to
sleep, but these gray skulkers still lingered about
the flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Once Hugh caught a glimpse of a gray figure
in a distant thicket; but it was too far to shoot.
An expert marksman would have felled him in
an instant; and Hugh began to regret that he
had not—by taking to the hunting trails in some
of his wasted days—learned this art. Try as he
might he couldn’t see that he was in the least
equipped for taking care of the flocks until another
herder could be secured. And for the first
hour he was deeply troubled as to the success of
his undertaking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No man, he considered—not even the Innuits
of the Arctic—knew less concerning the white
grazers than he himself. He had read no books
about them, and except for the fact that he had
bought various all-wool fabrics for his clothes
and had eaten many a lamb chop, he had had no
dealings with them whatsoever. He hadn’t the
least idea how to control or care for the vast
flock, when to water them and when to feed them
salt, at what hours they should bed down and
what orders to give his one faithful assistant, the
dog. This animal, he concluded, knew worlds
more about the business than he himself. In his
new humbleness he seriously regretted that the
barrier of speech prevented him from taking
orders from the dog.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fortunately Hugh was blessed with a sense of
humor, and soon it came to his aid. After the
first doleful hour he found considerable amusement
in his own predicament,—a clubman with
three thousand sheep suddenly thrust upon his
hands. He had read stories of men who had been
given the care of one or more babies,—and he
laughed when he thought how his own experiences
had put them out of the running. Fifteen
hundred babies, and as many helpless mothers,
all of them wholly in his care. He was tickled
all over, and after that he had no place in his
mind for worry and doubt about the outcome.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the fact that he regained his poise was the
best thing that ever happened for the sheep.
Realizing his own ignorance he made no attempt
to herd or guide them. He was not in the least
nervous or excited himself, and thus there was
no contagion of alarm to carry to the flock.
“After all,” he thought, “these brutes know
what’s best for ’em better than I know myself.
Let nature take its course. Let ’em do what they
want and I’ll follow along and keep off the
cougars; and of course, get ’em back to the camp
at night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wisest herdsman on earth could not have
given him better advice. He didn’t hurry the
sheep. But it was not because he had heard that
old Hebrew maxim,—that a lame herder takes
the best care of sheep. The idea is, of course,
that a lame man does not walk fast and hurry
his animals. By letting them follow their own
ways, he avoided the usual mistake of an inexperienced
herder in trying to keep his flock too
close together. They were Rambouillets—a
breed in which the gregarious instinct is highly
developed—and they hung close enough together
for general purposes. They grazed slowly:
Hugh had time to see the sky and the pines and
all the miracle and magic of the wonderland
about him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Never, he thought, had there been a more sudden
change in human fortunes. Two little weeks
before his own sphere of life had been restricted
by a few blocks of an eastern metropolis; he had
been a clubman, possibly—and he thought upon
the phrase with a strange derision—a social favorite.
He had been what men call—without
greatly bothering to discriminate—a gentleman.
He had lived the life that men of his class were
expected to live, drinking rather more than was
good for him, wasting time, and being frightfully
and immeasurably bored. Now—by the
exigencies of the hour, by a single prank of fate—he
was simply a herder of sheep. He was giving
all he possessed of time and skill to a job that
as a rule only Mexicans and uneducated foreigners
deigned to accept. He suddenly
laughed when he remembered that—although the
flock owner and himself had not yet agreed on
terms—he would probably secure wages for the
time spent. Two dollars a day, perhaps,—such
a sum as he ordinarily spent for cigarettes.
Thinking of cigarettes he delved into his pocket,
searching for a new pipe that on the advice of the
Old Colonel at his club he had brought with him
to Smoky Land and which had not yet been tried.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It had cost, he remembered, something less
than a dollar. The Old Colonel himself had
passed upon it, explaining certain virtues in regard
to it that Hugh had since forgotten.
“You’ll like a pipe,” the old gentleman had
said, “if you ever get into a real outdoor-man’s
mood. Cigarettes are all right, of course—probably
don’t give you the nicotine kick that a pipe
does—but a pipe has been the woodsman’s smoke
from Sir Walter Raleigh and the Indians down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He found the pipe and meditatively filled it
with fragrant tobacco. It was new, the taste of
burning varnish was not wholly absent, yet he
couldn’t remember that his expensive cigarettes
had ever given him the same delight. It was a
herdsman’s smoke, he thought, and for the time
being at least he was a herdsman. And the
thought of refusing the meager wage that the
flock owner would be willing to pay for his inexperienced
services didn’t even occur to him. He
wasn’t, he remembered, devoting his time for
nothing. And he was somewhat startled by the
thought that for the first time in his life his—Hugh
Gaylord’s—time was actually worth somebody’s
good money.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There would be a satisfaction in that little
wage that he had never received from the handsome
checks that he got monthly from his trust
company. The clinking dollars would be worth
showing to the boys at his club,—trophies greater
than the cups he had occasionally won at golf and
tennis. A herder of sheep,—that was the title
and degree of Hugh Gaylord, late of the Greenwood
Club. The whole idea amused him more
than he could tell.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The best of it was that no one would mistake
his calling. He looked the part. He hadn’t
shaved—he remembered by the sudden feel of
scratchy whiskers on his chin—for three days,
and he had the disreputable look that usually results
from such an omission. His outing clothes
were torn, drenched, soiled, and dust-covered.
At first he had felt somewhat uncomfortable in
his unsightly togs; he had regretted the departure
of his usual well-groomed appearance, but
now he actually rejoiced in his disreputability.
He wouldn’t have any trouble convincing the
camp-tender—when that mysterious gentleman
should reveal himself—that sheep-herding was
his fitting station in life. He would make, he
thought with a laugh, a fairly plausible tramp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had been greatly fatigued by his hard
swim in Silver Creek, but now he felt refreshed.
And he found himself wondering at the ease with
which laughter came to his lips. It wasn’t the
usual thing with Hugh Gaylord at all. He found
to his surprise that life was full of things to laugh
at: the incongruity of his position, the awkward
antics of the lambs, the grandmotherly concern
of the ewes, the whole irresistible joke of existence.
Before, Hugh had laughed in really but
two ways—one at wit (usually the forced wit of
a professional comedian) and the other in scorn.
One of these two ways, it seemed to him, had
wholly left him now. The ability to be really
scornful of anything in the wide world had seemingly
passed away. The vision of himself
watching the flocks had brought a new tolerance,
a new breadth of view toward all the world.
Never in his life, so far as he could remember,
had he laughed from the simple joy of life, the
laugh of sheer delight. Somehow, he had never
learned to know delight in its true sense.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then Hugh came to a curious conclusion. He
denied it a long time, but slowly the facts to support
it became too many to resist. It was simply
that in his past life—the life between which
mighty mountains now raised a formidable barrier—he
had grown old before his time. Nor
was it kindly and wholesome old age that had
come to him: the ripened wisdom of venerable
years. It was a false age, and it had given him
a wholly false outlook on life. Two weeks ago
he had felt infinitely old and tired, and now he
had been born again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His vision hadn’t been quite straight. He
had taken his own little sphere of life to represent
the whole magnificent sphere in which the
continents rise above the sea. Unlike all truly
great people, unlike the most worthy even among
his own set, he had adopted an attitude of what
he flattered himself was sophistication. But he
had not been a true Sophist, one who could immutably
separate the gold from the dross, one
who knew the infinite good humor as well as the
remorseless travail of life. He had thought that
everything was dross. He had lost faith in the
world, conceiving virtue as the exception rather
than the rule, doubting the compensation of
clean living, the sanctity of homes, the solace of
religion, the pride of good work, the purity of
womanhood, the immortality of ideals. And
most of all he doubted happiness. He didn’t
believe that it existed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet all at once he had found it: a quiet,
healthy happiness that was constant as his own
breathing. It lay, not in stimulation or in pleasures
between which the mood drops down, but in
a clear, sweet level of contentment, of personal
worth, of time well spent, of existence justified
and destiny fulfilled. There behind that flock,
tired of muscle but still on duty, guarding with
watchful eye and ready weapon, Hugh Gaylord
felt content for the first time in his life.</p>

<p class='pindent'>If there was one blessing in particular that his
false sophistication had cost him it was that of
simple faith,—the faith of children, faith in the
redemption of the race and the high constancy
of the stars. It meant, clearest of all perhaps,
that he had lost faith in miracles. Yet he now
found a miraculous quality in this very happiness
that had come upon him. He had self-wonder
no less amazing at the curious familiarity
and boundless peace with which he fell into the
spirit of the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He felt at peace. There was no other word.
Could it be that he had come into his own at last?
All his life, it had seemed to him, he had carried
in the deepest realms of his spirit a vision that
had now come true: just the feeding flocks in the
deep shade of the forest. He had the strange
feelings of one who—exiled in babyhood—catches
the far gleam of his homeland at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed wholly natural that he should be
walking here—behind the flocks—in silent vigil
as the sun climbed up over the far, white peaks.
He had a sense of having returned, after long
and futile wanderings, to his own home. Always
there had been blind, little-understood
gropings in his own soul, a reaching outward;
and had he found his destiny at last?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Up Silver Creek came the salmon, returning
to their home waters for their last days. Four
years had they dwelt in the dark bewilderment of
the sea, but they came back to their own places in
the end. Did they, all through those four years
of their exile, carry in the deepest recesses of
their beings a vision of their Lost Land to which
they would return to die? Did they know a
vague bewilderment, blind gropings in their fishy
souls, an unfamiliarity with the gray wastes and
the incessant waves that was not to end until they
could know again the shallows and cataracts and
waterfalls of their native river? Did peace come
to them then? It was repatriation,—and Hugh
felt that he had repatriated too. Only the exile
had not been confined to his own little life. Instead
of four years it was—more likely—four
generations, even four centuries. He had been
an alien in those far, tumultuous cities, but he had
come home to the open places at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You are an Anglo-Saxon,” the Old Colonel
had said, and that had meant that for as many
years as could be counted in a day his people had
been tillers of the soil. The Anglo-Saxon was
never one to gather into cities. He knew the
meadows, the forests, the feel of the earth
through the handles of his plow, the sheep feeding
on the hillside. When his land became too heavy
with people—so that he could no longer see the
sun breaking forth in glory to the east because
of city spires that rose between—he was likely to
set sail for the far places of the earth, still to
watch the sheep as they fed at the edge of the
forest. His was a people of the soil: before they
learned to plow, their flocks fed in the downs.
The love of the soil had been bred into his race,
warp and woof, and the little generations of exile
in cities could not take his heritage away from
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The flock fed for about two hours, then bedded
down to chew their cud. Hugh was perplexed
at first. He was somewhat fearful that a sudden
illness had come upon the entire flock. The
dog, however, seemed to understand. He came
back to his master’s side and the two of them had
a little chat as the morning advanced. After a
short rest the sheep got up and started to feed
again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was really not much work for Hugh to
do. Occasionally he would see a small band of
the sheep browsing off in a different direction
from the course of the main flock, but at such
times the dog knew the exact course of action.
He would circle around the straying animals,
cut off their escape, and they were always glad
to head back into the main flock. It became
increasingly evident, however, how difficult
it was to keep track of the entire band.
Only the gregarious instinct of the animals
maintained their formation at all: in the dense
woods he could see only a small part of the flock
at one time. He had no way of knowing if various
detachments had not already wandered away
from the main band. Of course he didn’t know
the methods by which most herders guard against
this danger: by an approximate count achieved
by keeping track of the black sheep, or markers.
It seemed to him also that the wolves and other
predatory animals had every opportunity in the
world to lurk about the flanks of the flock and
steal the lambs. The truth was that losses were
sustained in this manner every day, and his presence
alone prevented a wholesale slaughter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>About ten he decided it was time to turn
the sheep. They had been moving since before
dawn: he wanted to give them time in plenty to
get back to the camp before night. He didn’t
know how many rests they would wish to take in
the afternoon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He made a big circle about the flock, turning
back at its head. He supposed that he could
make the animals wheel straight about in a to-the-rear
march, permitting those at the rear of
the main band to get first chance at the feed on
the way home. The way of sheep, however, is
different. They executed what was more nearly
a squads right, keeping the same leaders. The
great advantage of the scheme lay in the fact
that circling, they made the return trip on fresh
feeding grounds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He felt increasingly thankful for the aid of his
dog. He seemed to interpret Hugh’s every
wish. And when at the head of the main band,
the man got his first glimpse of Spot.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER X</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>No observer could make any mistake about
Spot’s position in the flock. Through all the
maneuvers of the great band he kept the foremost
place; and the other sheep followed him
without question. The young and inexperienced
herdsman thought at first that he was the old
“bellwether” of the flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But in a very few moments he had to reconstruct
some of his ideas. In the first place Spot
was not old, and in the second he was obviously
not a wether. He was not wrinkled and withered
like the old ewes: sheep that had yielded
their wool for many seasons. To Hugh’s eyes
he looked like a yearling ram; and rather amazing
horns had begun to curve from his bold,
rugged head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh was considerably puzzled. He was not
a sheepman, but for the simple reason that there
were no other yearling rams in the flock he believed
that most of the previous season’s crop of
male lambs had been sold as wethers to the markets.
The mature lambs were obviously kept
apart until the breeding season in late fall or
winter. Some exception had thus been made in
the case of Spot. And Hugh found himself
watching the sturdy sheep with a singular interest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the first place the animal lacked the uniform
color of the other sheep. His basic color
was neither white nor black, but a decided dark
brown with white at the backs of the legs and the
rump. This variation of color immediately won
him his name. He was the only sheep in the flock
with horns, and in some vague way the man realized
that the outline of his figure was entirely
different from that of the ewes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although he was massively and boldly built,
there was an actual grace about his motions not
to be seen in the ewes. His form looked lean and
hard, for all its massive development, and he
stood several good inches above the tallest ewe in
the flock. Hugh found it hard to believe, however,
that he was some imported, high-bred yearling
ram that would later be used to help build
up the standard of the flock. In spite of his
exceptional height and strength, his trim body
probably weighed less than some of the fat ewes,
his wool was not unusual, and certainly one of
his rugged, agile form would not yield tender
mutton. The man found it increasingly difficult
to explain his presence in the flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh tried to head him off, only to find that
he was surprisingly quick on his feet. Only because
his flock were unable to follow him and the
young ram whipped back to join them was
Hugh able to round him up at all. And when
he darted off in a half-circle the whole band came
pell-mell after him as if, young as he was, they
were afraid to trust themselves without his guidance.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The longer Hugh looked at him, the more he
was marked from all the other sheep in the flock.
Of course it was possible that the mere fact that
he was a male of the species was enough thus to
distinguish him; yet ignorant though he was of
the ways of sheep, Hugh found this explanation
insufficient. In the first place Spot was just a
yearling and evidently not yet mature. He
could not imagine some of those strong-minded
old ewes trusting their lives and fortunes to any
ordinary immature ram. But this creature had
a carriage not to be seen in the others, seemingly
a spirit and pride and self-reliance that didn’t
quite fit in with the nature of domestic sheep.
His very stride revealed a bold, fearless, domineering
disposition.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He did not graze easily, as did most of his followers.
He skipped about across the whole
front of the flock, now perching upon some lofty
crag, now scampering up a narrow trail where
the flock could scarcely follow. But in the hot,
still late afternoon, as the sheep were beginning
to stir after a long rest in the forest shade, Spot
gave him even further cause to wonder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To Hugh, it seemed the hottest hour of the
day. His human sense, however, misled him: in
reality, the highest point had been reached, and
the cool winds from off the snow fields were on
their way to bring relief. The sheep were still
resting in a compact band: Spot, at the extreme
front rank of the flock, had climbed upon a little
rocky eminence on the hillside. It was such a
promontory as is to be seen often in the high
Rockies, an outcropping of the rocky skeleton of
the hill emerging—like the end of a broken bone
through the flesh—from the brown earth of the
hillside. It was such a place as the wolf chooses
for her lair, and the poison people—the gray
speckled rattlesnakes whose bite is death—like
to stretch out upon through the long, still afternoons.
Because it overlooked the whole glen
and was at the edge of the stony hillside where
he had been doomed to live, Running Feet, the
coyote, found it a convenient place to look for
game.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Why Spot had chosen such a place for his rest
Hugh could not guess. It was not shaded and
comfortable like the glen beneath. Nor did he
lie down like the ewes below him, but stood alert,
head up, nostrils open to receive any message
that the wind might bring. Hugh found himself
watching him with fascinated interest. It
seemed to him that the animal was on guard over
the flock, even as he himself and the dog,—a
watchful sentinel for any danger that might
threaten them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>If it were true, he had a right to his wonder.
The domestic animals do not ordinarily appoint
one of their number as a sentinel. They have
depended on the protection of men for so many
generations that this habit has died from the
breeds. The wild creatures, however, still retain
it. If indeed the ram should detect danger
for the flock, there was no conceivable refuge for
them, so there could have been no conscious intelligence
behind the act. It was obviously a long-remembered
instinct. Any of the fleet-footed
hunters of the wild could overtake them, and the
slaying was easy even for a little lynx, biting
sure and true.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No one knew this fact any better than Running
Feet, the coyote, emerging from the brushy
thickets of the hillside in late afternoon. His
second name was Coward—cowardice was part
of the curse that Manitou had put upon him—but
even a seasonal fawn would be brave enough
to attack a sheep. It might be, approaching in
the shelter of the thickets, he could get close
enough to the flock to steal a lamb or ewe from
its flanks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was not that he had forgotten the shepherd
dogs that kept watch, or the herder with his gun.
Running Feet was never able to forget things
like these. Part of his curse was a far-reaching
and calculating intelligence almost equal to that
of a dog, a trait that would have been a tremendous
advantage if he had been blessed with courage
to go with it, but which to a coward meant
only realization of a thousand dangers to make
life a torment. He understood perfectly what
displeasing treatment would be his if the dogs
came upon him at the killing. Not even Broken
Fang, the puma, can always protect himself
against the onslaught of the Barking One on
guard over the flocks. He is fast as lightning
and as terrible as the she-wolves at the lair
mouth. And Running Feet knew quite well the
deadly qualities of the glittering stick that the
herder carried in the hollow of his arm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To-day, however, there was only one dog, and
he worked on the far side of the flock. The
herder rested under a tree; if Running Feet kept
to the shelter of the brush, there was nothing to
fear from him. True, he would be obliged to dip
out into the open to seize one of the lambs, but if
fortune only permitted them to lie close enough
to the edge of the thicket, he could do it without
danger. Fortune wasn’t usually good to Running
Feet; but to-day perhaps his luck had
turned. And at that point in his wolfine
thoughts he made out the figure of Spot, in tireless
vigil on the highest point of the rock pile.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was too good to be true. The distance was
full two hundred yards from the herder; the dog
was equally distant. The brush went clear to
the base of the rocks; one or two little leaps into
the open would put him within killing range.
Then one or two slashing bites with his white
fangs,—and <span class='it'>that</span> would complete a perfect afternoon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Running Feet looked the ground over carefully.
He didn’t want to make any avoidable
mistakes. It might be that the young ram would
dash down and into the flock at the first sight of
him, and although he could overtake any domestic
sheep in a short run, it might necessitate a
chase into the clearing and some danger from the
herder’s rifle. The wise course was to circle
about the promontory, keeping as close as possible
to the shadow of the thicket, and advance
up the trail between Spot and his flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wind was right, the shadows were long
and strange, and even Running Feet the coward
could see no chance of failure. He crept slowly
from the thicket, a gray shadow few wilderness
eyes were keen enough to see. His white fangs
gleamed, the blood leaped in his veins. He made
the stalk with complete success: Hugh had not
been able to tell what living form had stirred the
thicket at the base of Spot’s lookout. And then
the gray killer came bounding up the rocky trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh saw him then. It was only a gray
glimpse: by no possible chance could he have
found a target for his rifle. The distance was
far, the coyote’s body half-obscured. He had
only one thought: that Spot was doomed beyond
any power of his to save him. Already, it
seemed to him, he had developed a real affection
for the self-reliant, spirited ram; and he had a
sense of acute personal loss as he read its doom.
To lose the brave leader of the flock in his first
day of service! No event in his life had ever
caused more regret.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No instruments may measure the speed of the
human mind in a second of crisis. The glimpse
of the charging coyote was of infinitesimal duration,
yet Hugh had time in plenty for an overpowering
wave of regret and rage. The time he
lacked, however, was that for muscular response.
There was none whatever to raise his rifle and
take aim.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant his regrets were cut short.
He suddenly shouted with delight. Spot was
not to die so tamely,—in the fangs of Running
Feet. All at once the young ram snapped about
in the trail, making no attempt whatever to flee
into the thickets on the other side of the rock pile.
And he lowered his head in a posture of defense.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For long seconds he stood motionless, statuesque,
his horns ready for the coyote’s onslaught.
There was something masterful, noble about the
posture, not at all to be expected in the timid and
defenseless domestic sheep. And the coyote
drew up short in the trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The other sheep had sprung up, by now, and
were crowding away from the rock pile: the dog
sprang forward, barking, at the other side of the
flock. Hugh stood waiting for a chance to aim
his weapon. And still the tableau on the rocks
remained unchanged: the young ram with lowered
head, the coyote—his blood turning to milk
inside of him—on the trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh’s astonishment was nothing compared
to the coyote’s own. He had expected flight,
panic,—anything on earth except an actual attitude
of self-defense. Just for a moment he
stood motionless, snarling, trying to find courage
to attack. But not for nothing had Manitou
put his curse upon him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All at once it came to him that he had made a
mistake. There was something familiar about
the sturdy figure, the lowered head, the curling
horns. He remembered certain passes in the
High Rockies,—and various trim, horned creatures
that might occasionally be met there.
Even Broken Fang did not care to meet these
people on a narrow trail,—and Running Feet remembered
with some haste that he had an appointment
on the other side of the hill.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that instant Hugh shot. The distance was
far; the bullet whizzed hot along Running Feet’s
shoulder. He didn’t wait for a second shot. He
turned and fled at the fastest pace he knew.
And with the air whizzing past him he wholly
missed the curious words that the herder uttered,—the
strange remark that he made to Spot, still
standing defiantly with lowered horns on the
trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good Lord, Spot,” he cried, “you’re not
just a sheep. Sure as I live, you’re a——” But
he didn’t finish telling what Spot was. Perhaps
he didn’t know; and the ideas that were glowing
dimly in his brain did not yet take the form of a
concrete thought. But more likely his attention
was merely called away. For at that instant he
saw his camp-tender advancing slowly up the
trail.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh Gaylord had, like all men, experienced
some rather violent surprises in his time. They
had been coming exceptionally thick and fast
since he had come to Smoky Land. His changed
attitude toward life and his behavior in regard
to the flocks had been amazing experiences in
themselves. He had just experienced a rather
violent shock on beholding the warlike behavior
of Spot. The previous night he had been
through the unusual experience of finding the
body of a murdered man in a tent. But he suddenly
realized that he was facing the most amazing
situation of all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Death, after all, in some manner or other
comes to all living creatures. Hugh had no real
reason for amazement at that still form in the
herder’s tent. He was ready to confess he didn’t
know a great deal about sheep: possibly Spot’s
episode with the coyote would not have so surprised
a more experienced herder. But now he
felt as if a number of his preconceived ideas had
been violently knocked out of him, and that is
always dumbfounding. His camp-tender was
not a Mexican, nor yet a laboring man of a certain
type, but a girl.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had seen some thousands of girls in his life,
yet he found himself staring at the slim form on
the horse as if he were gazing upon a miracle of
nature. Every experience of the past few days
might have been in some manner expected and
he had only reacted because of qualities within
himself; his experiences with Broken Fang and
the coyote were wholly fitting in this wild, mountainous
land, but he had never dreamed but that
he had left all womankind a thousand miles behind
him. This was a man’s land, not a place
for the tender flesh of girls. This was the home
of savage beasts, a region of dark forests and
forbidding peaks, never a land of gentleness and
ease such as women should know. He realized
with a start that evidently his good manners had
been left behind him also, for he was gazing at
her in open-mouthed astonishment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>If the girl on the horse had been an Indian
squaw, even an aged and wrinkled frontiersman’s
dame, he would have felt that the axis of
the world still stood at the proper angle. But
this girl was white, in spite of her tan and the
high color—not put on with a rabbit’s foot—in
her cheeks. She was young, not more than
twenty-two at most. And strangest of all she
was pretty past all denial.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh felt as if there must be some mistake.
Perhaps in these lonely days in the hills he had
lost the power of discrimination. He hadn’t
seen a girl for endless weeks—centuries they
seemed to him—and he had heard that such isolation
affects the point of view. The girl might be
white; by a long chance she might even be young;
but by no possible circumstance had she a right
to be pretty. Beauty dwelt in far cities, in gentle
lands and distant, not in these rugged mountains.
Yet the truth of his first observation became
ever more apparent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He steadied himself, closed his mouth, and
tried to stand at his ease. The girl swung down
from the horse. That motion, graceful as the
leap of a deer, explained in a measure the mystery.
It revealed a suppleness, a strength and
litheness of body such as might stand the test of
existence even on the frontier.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh noted that she was a slender girl, rather
tall, that she wore a soft felt hat over her chestnut
hair, and that she had dark eyes under rather
marvelous brows. Hugh was no amateur in regard
to women. Now that he had regained his
self-control he made a swift and unerring appraisal;
yet found his amazement deepening at
every instant. There was a freshness, an appeal
about her slight figure, suggesting perfect health
and superb physical development rather than
weakness, and he was not blind to the gentleness
and breeding in her soft features.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She seemed perfectly composed, wholly at
ease. In her simplicity she found no embarrassment
under his frank gaze. “Where’s Dan?”
she asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh straightened, somewhat startled. He
had expected some sort of a formal greeting, a
few words in apology or introduction, not this
straight-out, uncompromising “Where’s Dan?”
It seemed to him she acted somewhat suspicious
of him, also.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had, he observed, a well-bred voice. She
spoke in clear, level tones that pleased his ear.
The voice was wholly lacking in affectation, but
it was simply brimming and vibrant with health
and high spirits. Hugh noticed something else,
too, and smiled inwardly. He couldn’t remember
ever having been spoken to in just that way
before. The level, impersonal tone implied an
insurmountable social barrier between them. It
was a somewhat similar tone, he remembered, to
that in which he had occasionally spoken to a
servant. In this case he obviously was the inferior.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He paused and reflected as to the whereabouts
of Dan. The truth came to him in a moment.
Dan of course referred to his predecessor.
“He’s dead,” Hugh answered simply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the instant he was frightened. It occurred
to him, when the words had gone too far
to recall, that he should have been gentler. He
might have prepared the girl, in some degree, for
the shock. He didn’t want her to faint. But if
he had expected any hysteria or excitement he
was doomed to a fresh surprise. She opened her
eyes; and it seemed to Hugh that she closed her
lips—in a fine, hard line—just for an instant.
“Dead?” she repeated slowly. “Killed—or did
he just die?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He was killed,” Hugh answered in the
straightforward way of one on a witness stand.
“I found him dead in his tent. He’d been shot.
The black dog was shot too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And who are you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh wasn’t exactly accustomed to this
straight-out sort of questioning, but he mustered
his faculties and made his answers. “Gaylord—Hugh
Gaylord,” he said simply. “And if you
want me to I’ll tell you all I know of this affair.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps that would be the best plan,” she
agreed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I came over to the camp—to borrow something.
I was with another chap—an Indian,
Pete. We found this poor beggar dead. Pete
started with him into the settlements to-day.
It’s a wonder you didn’t meet him on the trail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He probably took the other fork, heading
toward Seven Mile. I came up from Horse
Creek.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>As Hugh didn’t know the two places apart,
or what they represented, this information did
not clear matters up for him to any great extent.
“He left me here,” Hugh went on, “and as I
didn’t have anything in particular to do—I took
care of the sheep—until you could hire a regular
herder.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl looked puzzled but made no immediate
reply. “And you’re not an experienced
herder?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. I’ve never worked—I’ve never worked
at it before.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then how did you know what to do?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t know. I let ’em do what they
wanted to, and followed along.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then the girl laughed,—for the first time. It
was a tinkling, musical sound, inexpressibly
girlish, and Hugh laughed boyishly himself. It
was their first real moment of understanding;
and it seemed to Hugh that a new impulse, a
curious sense of impending events, a new stir and
vitality had been born in the air. He might have
wondered at the freshness and happiness in his
own laugh, as much as in hers. It was an hour
of miracles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You couldn’t have done better—and I
needn’t tell you that you’ve probably saved me—and
my father—hundreds of dollars. The
coyotes and the wolves would have been busy all
night and to-day. I’d be glad enough to pay
you well for this time you’ve spent—and give
you a steady job if you want it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She spoke perfectly naturally, and Hugh
knew that his torn and soiled clothes and his unshaven
face had done their work. Obviously she
never guessed his true position. He wondered
how she explained his presence in the hills and his
reasons for staying with the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She did have her own theories, but they were
far indeed from the truth. Her mind leaped at
once to what seemed to her the most plausible
explanation,—that Hugh was a humble white
man, friend of Pete’s, possibly a laborer out of
work, or a hungry wanderer from the East. He
had taken the herder’s place in hopes of securing
a permanent position when the camp-tender returned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Before I decide to stay,” Hugh replied
steadily, “I’d like to know a few things.”</p>

<p class='pindent'><a id='pay'></a>“We’ll pay you two dollars a day—and furnish
you with supplies,” she assured him soberly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh did not smile. After all, the wage was
an important consideration. The girl was evidently
a partner with her father in this sheep-raising
venture, and possibly for the sake of
economy but probably because of the acute shortage
of labor (Hugh had not forgotten the Indian’s
words) had worked as camp-tender herself.
Her perfect health, her strong, lithe body,
a skill with horses and a wholesome scarcity of
nonsense in her disposition had enabled her to
fill the position well and in all probability to enjoy
it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh studied her face with growing interest.
In his sphere of life girls did not drive trains of
pack horses into the rugged hills, do a man’s
work in the open, have dealings with uneducated
herders, and still laugh like silver bells.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She wore, he noticed, a rather heavy revolver
slung at her hip. Her hand was small and
shapely, but it was also brown and firm. They
would make, Hugh thought, a rather dangerous
combination. The eyes, wide apart and bright,
looked unusually healthy and clear, and Hugh
imagined that they could see quite straight over
revolver sights. The man understood why she
had been able to ply her occupation in safety.
Woe to the herder that would presume upon
their isolation!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Labor is scarce, I suppose?” Hugh asked.
What he was really trying to find out was how
long this position of sheep herder would be thrust
upon him. He had yielded himself to enough
folly for one day, and he had no intention of
committing himself to a position as sheep herder
for the rest of his natural life. As soon as they
could find a substitute,—but Hugh didn’t finish
the sentence. He suddenly realized that thence
on he had no plans.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl looked up, rather sober of face.
“<span class='it'>Good</span> labor is very scarce,” she agreed honestly.
“But we can’t pay more than two dollars
a day. You see—you’re inexperienced.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Secretly he thought that she was <span class='it'>bluffing</span>, that
she would pay a much higher price to retain him
as shepherd of the flock. But he didn’t voice the
thought. “Two dollars a day is all right,” he
said. “That wasn’t what I was going to ask
you. There’s some other things I want to know—that
I feel I have a right to know. That man
was murdered, and the guide thought it was because
of a fight between the sheepmen and
cattlemen. I don’t care to have some one come
up here and find me murdered, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl seemed distressed. It was the first
time since their meeting that she seemed to lack
words. Then she looked up fearlessly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wish I could tell you differently,” she said.
“A sheep woman has no right to be honest, in
these days. The Indian told you the truth. Dan
was murdered, not for personal reasons, but because
the cattlemen—a little, evil group of them—want
to destroy this flock of sheep—just why
I’ll tell you later. And that’s the chance you
must take.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a real chance?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Again she flinched. “They seem to be willing
to go to any lengths to beat us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But it’s a chance worth taking,” he said with
a sudden lightness of heart. “I’ll keep the job
for a while at least.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He watched her face as he spoke, and he saw
the light—as unmistakable as the dawn that he
had seen come over the mountains—grow in her
face. It was reward enough. The joy that he
got out of the work itself was henceforth simply
clear profit; for another motive—one that had
just come into his life—justified beyond all question
the expenditure of his time and the chance of
death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He didn’t try to explain the matter to his own
satisfaction. He only knew that he felt a great
and resistless desire to help this straight young
mountain girl in her venture, to take sides with
her against the monstrous odds that opposed her.
He had committed himself: he noticed with an
inward laugh that the girl had not promised even
to attempt to get another herder to take his place.
And he felt vaguely and secretly glad.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The two of them started to drive the white
flocks back to the camp.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>As the stars emerged and the little mountain
wind sprang up and crept forth in its never-ending
explorations of the thickets, the shepherdess
explained all things to Hugh’s satisfaction. But
first there was supper: a meal the like of which
he had never tasted before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl cooked it. Hugh watched her, her
swift, graceful motions, the ease and strength
with which she went about her tasks, and he
found an unlooked-for delight in the sight. She
had brought fresh stores; and the meal—from
Hugh’s suddenly rejuvenated point of view—was
more nearly a banquet. Were there not new
potatoes, roasted in the ashes, flapjacks with
syrup, a fresh, white-breasted grouse that she
had beheaded with her pistol on the way out, and
for dessert dried apples stewed to a succulency
and tenderness that passed all description?
Hugh had eaten some thousands of meals in his
time. He had dined in the most famous cafés
and restaurants of Europe, he had been at pretentious
dinner parties. Yet he couldn’t remember
ever experiencing the simple and healthy zest
for food, the sheer delight of eating, the amazing
appetite that had come upon him now. No
meal in his whole life had ever tasted so good or
satisfied him more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the first place he had done a man’s work.
For the first time in recent years his body actually
demanded food: plenty of it and soon, for
he had missed his lunch; besides, he had that inner
peace and satisfaction of a day’s work completed.
Then its very preparation made it appetizing,—the
slim, sure hands of the girl, her
brown arms flashing, the fragrant wood smoke,
the long, impressive vista of the Rockies behind
the camp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After supper he helped her wash the camp
dishes; then cut fir boughs for her bed that was to
be situated nearly a quarter of a mile away,
across the meadow. The idea of being afraid of
him seemingly didn’t even occur to her. She
would have slept out the same way had he been
from any other class of men, and Hugh could understand
how his predecessors had respected her
heavy revolver. Then there was a quiet hour
with his new-found friend, his pipe,—and the
girl telling her story in the fire’s glow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My father’s name is Crowson—Ezra Crowson,”
she began in the direct mountain way.
“And mine—out here we don’t bother with last
names—is Alice Crowson. You don’t have to
call me Miss, Mr. Gaylord——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And by the same token,” he replied, “my
first name is Hugh.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then Hugh——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then Alice——” And they laughed across
the fire. It had become quite easy to laugh at
simple, wholesome pleasantries. Yet there was
no familiarity here. Alice had told the truth:
last names take time; and time, in the West, is
precious. Names were designations of people,
rather than people the representatives of names.
Names didn’t matter and people did.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dan called me Alice too,” she went on, suddenly
remembering to remind Hugh that he was
in the same class, as far as privileges went, with
his predecessors. “My father lives down at a
place called Horse Creek—and unlike many
sheepmen in the West, his whole capital is tied
up in this one flock. He isn’t a big sheepman—only
a little one. That is what makes it so important
that we win.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He bought the stock from an old friend to
whom he had loaned everything he had—and it
was either take the sheep or lose everything. He
wasn’t an experienced sheepman. Otherwise he
wouldn’t have come here—where Landy Fargo
and his gang control everything. You see,
Hugh, they are cattlemen—managers—and
they’re part owners, too—for a number of rich
men in the East. For years and years they’ve
had everything their own way in regard to the
range.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe, if you’re an Eastern man, you don’t
understand about range. The Western stock
business depends on having acres and acres of
open land for the stock to run in through spring,
summer, and fall, feeding them just in winter.
The land is either privately owned, public domain,
school lands or government national forest:
in this case it is—except for this big track we
have been using—public domain. Of course the
sheepmen had just as much right to it as the
cattlemen, but because they wanted to keep all
the range for themselves, they’ve driven off every
man who tried to run sheep in Smoky Land.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, it was easy to do. Sometimes they did
it just by threatening, sometimes by poisoning
the stock, and <span class='it'>sometimes</span>——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh leaned forward. “By killing the herders?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.” The girl’s lips set tight. “I didn’t
know they would go that far, but Fargo’s got a
new right-hand man now—a Mexican named
José. He’s used to killing—he learned it in the
South—and I haven’t a bit of doubt but that he
shot Dan last night. Perhaps they’ve killed before,
but before it was always open warfare, at
least. They’ve always won—and for all I see
they’ll win now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You see, as far as public domain is concerned,
they’ve got a certain right to oppose the
sheepmen. They were the first here, and cattle
won’t feed after sheep. But in this case there’s
a wide track—almost a whole township—through
the center of Smoky Land that isn’t
public domain but belongs to an old woman
down at Boise. It is the best sheep range in the
State, and father found out that the cattlemen
weren’t renting it. The old woman had tried
to rent it to them, but they wouldn’t take it. We
found out why, later. They were using it without
paying for it—and they thought that giving
any money to this helpless old woman was just
throwing it away. Incidentally it was all she
had, and because there are no mills here, it is
practically valueless except for range.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Father thought that by renting it, the cattlemen
would leave him alone. They had all the
public domain; and in this way, there couldn’t be
any particle of doubt about his being in his
rights, both lawfully and from the customs of the
range. The rent for it—for a term of years—cost
him what little money he had left.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve been at war ever since. We’ve got
to hang on—it’s ruin for father if he quits. If
the cattlemen would take the lease off our hands—as
is only fair—we might ship off the flock and
get out without losing everything; but they won’t
do it. They’d sooner shoot and kill our herders.
If you hadn’t come along when you did last night—hundreds
of sheep would be dead to-day from
the coyotes and cougars. I’m two days early
myself—the flock would be practically wiped out
before the date I was expected to arrive. They
have intimidated or bought up all the labor in the
region so we can’t get help—that partly is the
reason why I’m doing this work.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s got down now to a simple matter of
holding on—for a few months more. In October
we start the sheep down—we’ll be nearer the
settlements and the protection of law. Besides,
a lot of the public domain becomes National Forest
on the same date—by an act of Congress—and
then there will be a big force of forest rangers
here to protect us. If we can stay, and fight
them off, and protect the flock until that time—we’ve
won. But I’m almost tired of trying.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her voice dropped from tone to tone, then
ceased. The silence of the wilderness was left.
Hugh glanced across the glowing coals, haunted
by the girl’s beauty, wondering at the flood of
new emotions that swept over him. “I suppose—if
I hadn’t happened along—you’d not know
where to look for another herder,” he suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She nodded slowly. “It would have pretty
near been the end.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And what if I should decide—to stay here
clear through the summer, clear to the time to
take the flocks down to the lower levels.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She looked up, a strange, brooding concern
in her face. “I don’t know that I have a right
to ask you,” she said slowly. “This isn’t play,
Hugh—it seems so natural to call you that. One
man already has been killed. I don’t know that
I have a right to ask you to risk your life. But
father is old—and he had such high hopes—and
it means so much. No, I can’t ask you to stay.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He leaned forward, more earnestness in his
face than had ever dwelt there before. “But
what if I wanted to stay—clear to the end?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>A curious luster was in her eyes. “I wouldn’t
dare believe it—and I wouldn’t understand.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I’m not sure that I understand, either,”
he told her. “But my days have never been
much use to me before. It’s the first time I’ve
ever had a chance to do something—not only for
myself but somebody else—the first time I’ve
really had an opening—to do something worth
while.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She thought she understood. She knew the
West—this mountain girl—and she knew a certain
unfortunate breed of men that often come
wandering down its long trails. Mostly they
come from the busy cities in the East: human
derelicts, men who have broken and failed in the
struggle for existence. Sometimes they come
looking for new opportunities, sometimes they
are merely tramps, the wanderlust in their veins,
more than often they are men of good families
who have sunk to the lowest levels of life. She
marked his well-bred speech, and she thought she
knew his type. Her keen eyes saw the deep lines
in his face, his bloodshot eyes, and she didn’t understand
how Dan’s supply of whisky had been
left intact. Possibly Hugh had failed to find
it!</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps he would want to go on, in a few more
days; yet she couldn’t banish the hope that he
was of different stuff than most of his kind. “If
you did stay—and help us out—we’d make it
right with you in the end,” she promised. No
longer was she the employer, speaking from the
heights. Her tone was almost pleading. “Perhaps
you could buy a share in the business—and
get a fresh start in life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He suddenly got up and found a curious satisfaction
in swinging mighty blows with the axe
at the fir log Dan had used for fuel. It acted as
a relief valve for emotions that he felt would soon
get away from him. He looked up, smiling boyishly.
“I’ll stay—to the end,” he promised.
“But Lord knows—I don’t know anything
about sheep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And you give me fresh heart.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Thus they made a pact in the firelight, and
they had a few moments of sheer joy as she gave
him simple directions as to how to take care of
the flock, when to salt them, and how to direct
their feeding. “And while you’re telling me
these things,” the man said, “for Heaven’s sake
tell me about Spot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course you mean the yearling ram——”
Hugh nodded. “You must have learned a lot
about sheep in one day—or you’d never have
noticed him. Spot <span class='it'>is</span> a mystery—has been since
he was born. And what has he been doing to-day?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh narrated with much enthusiasm the encounter
between the flock leader and the coyote,
so interested in the story itself that he quite failed
to wonder and be amazed at his own unlooked-for
lightness of heart, his buoyant spirits.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s typical of Spot,” the girl said at the end.
“Perhaps you’ve noticed that he’s oversized—taller
and stronger than the rest?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If it hadn’t been for that, he would have
likely been lamb stew long ago. He was exceptionally
large at birth, and father had him retained
partly because he was interested in his
unusual coloring, and partly because he thought
that his extra size would give him value as a ram.
He endeared himself to the herder, and this year—he’s
a yearling ram but he’s not yet mature—father
let him run with the flock. None of us
know what to make of him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They got up, built the fire high so that its glow
went out over the flock, and tried to get another
glimpse of him. They found him easily enough,
at the very foremost of the band, his brown color
in vivid contrast to the whiteness of the ewes.
And in finding him Alice made another, less
pleasing discovery.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh didn’t understand at first. He saw that
she was making some kind of a count, first
leisurely, then in frantic haste. A troubled look
came into her fresh face. Once more she verified
the count, then turned to him with a rueful smile.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My day’s work is not yet over,” she said
slowly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why not?” he demanded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“One of the markers—one of sixteen black
ewes—is missing. Do you know what that
means?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good Heavens—that you’ve got to go out—in
this dark forest—to look for him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The ninety and nine,” she quoted, still with
the same, inscrutable smile. “But it isn’t just
one, Hugh. You see, sheep keep relatively the
same position in the flock. Of course it might be
just a single disaster—a coyote snatching her
from the flanks—but ordinarily when one of the
black sheep is gone, it means that a hundred or
so others have gone with her. I can’t take the
chance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>His own face grew mournful. “You see—what
a good herder I am. Lose a hundred sheep
the first day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It happens to the best of herders.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then why can’t I go out to look for them—and
let you stay here? That’s what I’m going
to do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. You must stay here. You don’t know
sheep yet, Hugh, and likely you don’t know these
mountains. The band of them is somewhere
through the stretch you fed over to-day—and I
would know just how and where to look for
them. At night with no dog—the dog must stay
here with you—you wouldn’t be able to drive
them. I even have to go on foot, so I can climb
down into the steep canyons and go through the
brush. It’s part of the life of the camp-tender.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But you won’t go—in this darkness——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll wait till the moon rises. Besides, I
know this Smoky Land from end to end. So
don’t be afraid for me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They stood silent by the leaping flame. The
sheep lay quiet, the shepherd dog slept at Hugh’s
feet. And subtly stealing into their consciousness
above the sound of the leaping flame they
heard the voice of the forest, mysterious and profound,—the
little sounds of the wind in the
thicket, the rustling of leaves, the hushed footfall
of the wild creatures. Into that darkness Alice
would venture for her lost sheep. Hugh felt a
strange weight of dread.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Above the far mountains the clouds gleamed
with the first beams of the rising moon.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>In that momentous twilight that brought
Hugh Gaylord to the sheep camp for the first
time, there was unfamiliar traffic on the brown,
pine-needle trail that wound down to the meadows
from the darkening forest. There was the
sound of a footfall not often heard. And one
can imagine the lesser forest people—the little
gnawing folk that have underground lairs and to
whom the ferns are a beautiful, tropical forest—gazing
up with bright eyes to see who came.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps at first they thought it was merely
one of the hunters: a great creature of claw or
fang such as a wolf or cougar. This was the
hour when the beasts of prey started forth to
hunt, and it was true that the step had a stealthy,
hushed quality of one who does not care to have
his presence known. It can be understood why
a little gopher, so fat of cheeks that he gave the
impression of being afflicted with mumps, lay
rather close and still among his tree roots until
the creature got past. He didn’t care to feel a
puma claw impaling him as a fishhook impales a
worm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The gopher has not particularly acute vision,
so this traveler on the pine-needle trail was
to remain ever a mystery to him. He was
aware of a tall, dark form that glided softly and
departed; and life became the same puzzling
grayness that it had been before. A chipmunk,
however—like a little patch of light and shadow
against a brown tree trunk—could see much better.
And he lay very still, only his eyes busy,
until he found out the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The passer-by was only a man, after all, such
a creature as usually did not take the trouble to
hunt chipmunks. Still he felt afraid, and it is
extremely doubtful that the small-sized, always
addled brain in his miniature skull could tell him
why. The truth was that in that stealing figure
there was something terribly suggestive of the
beasts of prey themselves, creatures that—more
than often—did devote unwelcome attentions to
chipmunks. The man crept through the forest
with the same caution. His eyes were strange
and glowing like those of the lynx as it climbs
through the branches. And over him—an aura
too dim and obscure for the blunt senses of human
beings—hung an essence with which the
wilderness creatures are only too familiar: that
ancient lust and fever that comes to Broken
Fang when he strikes down his prey.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was shivering all over; and it was to be
remembered that the wolf—in certain dread moments
at the end of the chase—shivered the same
way. One would have been given cause to wonder
what stress, what dreadful events had occurred
beyond the edge of the meadow that had
caused this queer inebriation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But as strong drink dies in the body, the fever
seemed to fall away from him as he made turn
after turn in the trail. He stooped now, rather
than crouched, his footfall had a fumbling,
heavy, dragging quality that was not at all like
the stealth it had possessed at first. The surface
lights passed from his dark eyes, leaving them
somewhat languorous and lifeless. The lines of
his face were of inordinate fatigue; he no longer
trembled in excitement, and for all the heat of
the July night he felt cold.</p>

<p class='pindent'>José Mertos was no stranger to the blood-madness.
It had been upon him plenty of times
in his own land, and he had shivered and exulted
with it beneath far southern stars. Yet it never
grew old to him. Its rapture seemed ever
greater. But unfortunately, when it died, it left
disquieting pictures in his brain. They always
took the fine edge from his satisfaction after a
particularly skilful affair such as this had been.
He was a tried hand in such work, innured to
wickedness, yet he still retained the same troublesome
tendency toward after-images that had
spoiled his sleep, one night and another, in the
past.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At present he couldn’t forget the ludicrous
look of bewilderment with which Dan the herder
had received the rifle shot. It was only a thing
to laugh at, to tell as a good joke when he sat
with his employer, yet he found no pleasure in
thinking of it now. The herder had simply
looked amazed,—not afraid, not awed by the
Gates of Darkness that had rushed up to him,
nothing at all but deeply bewildered and unbelieving.
He hadn’t seemed to realize that José
had shot him, that even as the blank expression
of astonishment had come upon his face the lead
ball had forced a passage through his breast.
Perhaps he died too quickly for any sort of realization.
And José could not forget the queer
swaying and staggering with which he fell back
upon his tree-bough pallet,—just as if he were
drunk and falling into bed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The pictures came in a series, one after another.
First this falling, then the glimpse of the
still form on the fir boughs. The black shepherd
dog had come bounding toward him, and José
had drawn his pistol for this work. It was just
as good at close range. And he remembered
with amazing clearness how the light had died,
slowly and unmistakably, in the dog’s eyes. He
had watched the sheep for the last time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Even now José didn’t understand how he had
missed the other, larger shepherd dog. He had
shot, the animal had rocked down, he had looked
back once to the dead herder in the tent (perhaps
to see how <span class='it'>he</span> was taking this slaughter of
his pets) and when he had turned his eyes again,
the animal had risen and was fleeing from him
about the flank of the flock. The cur was
wounded, anyway: perhaps the injury was severe
enough to end his life before the morning.
His watch of the sheep was surely done. And
Landy Fargo—the man who even now waited
for his report—would find the whole matter to
his satisfaction.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A few minutes later José came to the thicket
where he had left his horse; then he headed on
down the trail. Through the night hours he
rode. Not in one chance out of a thousand
would the murder be discovered before Alice
Crowson returned, three days later, but he didn’t
care to take that thousandth chance. It might be
embarrassing—considering his past record—to
explain his presence near the murder. “If you
can’t buy him over and things <span class='it'>do</span> get to the shooting
stage,” Landy Fargo had said, “no one will
find the stiff for three days. You’ll be miles
away by then, the flock’ll be torn to pieces, and
we’ll be settin’ pretty. It’s the safest deal you
were ever in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The destruction of the flock, José considered,
was not his business. His work was done and
the sooner he got out of the immediate vicinity
the better it would be for him. He spurred the
horse into a slow, easy gallop.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The moon came up, falling dimly upon his
burnished skin. It would be no longer possible
to mistake his race. He was even darker than
Pete, the Indian, his eyes were like jet, his lips
were thin and dark and cruel. But he rode well.
He seemed to hang almost limp in the saddle,
utterly without effort, and the long miles sped
beneath him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the night was almost done when he came
to Landy Fargo’s house on the lower waters of
Silver Creek. Fargo himself was dozing in a
great chair in his stuffy living room, waiting for
his envoy to return.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were several noticeable features about
this room. The principal one was its dirt. The
floors were stained, the carpets soiled, the corners
cluttered with rubbish of all kinds; the window
glass was so spotted that it did not let the moonlight
in, and the soft light lingered—like an unwelcome
ghost—against the windowpane. The
effect that wise interior decorators try to obtain
in furnishing—that in which the pieces, not holding
the eye in themselves, give an atmosphere, a
sense of unity—was quite lacking here. The
mantel was clustered with gaudy ornaments, the
chairs were tawdry, cheap pictures covered the
walls. But yet the room reflected the individuality
of the man in the chair. He was just as
cheaply gaudy, just as unclean as the room itself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He got up, and it was to be seen that he had a
rather formidable physique. He had imposing
muscles, stocky legs, and it was wholly possible
that before prosperity had come upon him he had
been an agile, muscular cattleman. But the gaze
left his heavy frame and was held by the unmistakable
brutality of his face. There was none of
the fine-edged cruelty—that with which a puma
pats and plays his prey to death—that was to be
seen in the swarthy face of José. He was blunt,
dull; his savagery was that of the bulldog,—heavy
lips closed over strong teeth, little lurid
eyes looking out from under heavy brows.</p>

<p class='pindent'>José rolled a cigarette, lighted it, drew its
smoke into his vitals, then lolled in one of the
chairs. Fargo watched him with hard eyes, not
a little admiring. Most of his understrappers
did not come into his presence with this same ease
and self-possession. He was used to seeing men
cower before him. He had learned to look for a
certain cringing and servility, and many a time
when it was lacking he forced it with his heavy,
flailing fists. But José was different. It might
not be healthy to strike José. They met eyes to
eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well?” Fargo demanded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was somewhat anxious about the verdict.
This had been no child’s play,—what José had
been sent to do. It was really a new departure
for the little clique that he headed. There had
been deaths before, open riding and fast shooting,
but deliberate and premeditated killing had
never been necessary. Slumber hadn’t come
easily to him to-night. And now he didn’t like to
be kept waiting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, what?” José answered. “You mean—what
luck?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s it.” Fargo uttered a short syllable of
a laugh. “What luck?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I said I’d do it, didn’t I, if he didn’t come
around? Well, I’ve done it. There’s nobody
watchin’ them sheep to-night.” And thus it was
to be seen that José had lived long enough among
Americans to acquire the vernacular. Only a
hint of the Latin, a softening of consonants, remained
in his tone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo uttered a short sigh of relief. “Clean
job, eh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All except the big dog. Killed the black
one. Wounded the shepherd—think he’ll kick
in before morning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo leaned back in his chair. “Then there’s
nothin’ to it. I guess that’ll show ’em, eh,
José?” He fell to boasting. “I guess that
makes it plain that when I say get out, I mean
get out. You know I told that devil this was his
last warning—told him myself what would happen
to him if he didn’t switch over to us—and I
guess he got what he wanted. But I’m sorry you
missed the dog. He might keep away a lot of
cats and coyotes that would otherwise be busy
for the next few days.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s wounded—don’t think he can.” José
breathed an oath in his own tongue. “But I
don’t see what it’s all about. Crowson had that
tract rented——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You don’t, eh?” Fargo stiffened. “I don’t
know it’s necessary that you see what it’s all
about. That happens to be my business—and
don’t go making any mistake about that. But
I’ll explain it a little better. I’ve been told—by
the men that own the herds with me—to keep
out sheepmen at all cost. That one piece of
range that Crowson rented has been worth ten
thousand a year to us. Do you think we’re goin’
to let that slip out of our hands for a bunch of
measly sheep?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But why didn’t you have enough sense to
rent that tract yourself?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Because we’re trying to make a clean-up out
of this deal, that’s why. Who’d ever dream that
old hag would ever find a renter—and as long
as we were gettin’ it free, what was the use?
We’ve been here a long time—if this flock prospered
there’d be more of ’em come in—and
where’d be our monopoly of the range then?
You know that our policy has always been to
squeeze out the little fellow—cattle as well as
sheep. We’ve got to set an example with this
flock of Crowson’s—and to have ’em all get killed—in
a few days—or even part of ’em, is going
to discourage any more sheepmen coming into a
cattle country. You don’t know cattlemen, José,
or you wouldn’t question. Just the same—the
job’s only half done. A shepherd dog, wounded
or not, ’ll stay to fight to the last inch of hair on
his body, especially that big devil of Crowson’s.
And he sure can bluff out the coyotes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>José discarded his cigarette, and lit a fresh
one. “Well, say what’s to be done,” he said.
“I’m not goin’ back after that other dog.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not tellin’ you to, either. Your job is to
stay away from there.” Fargo suddenly leaned
forward, his eyes burning. “You know what
I’d like to see?” he whispered. “I’d like to have
that Crowson girl ride up there in a day or two
and find every one of those damned woollies—every
one, not three or four hundred of ’em—dead
and rotting in the grass. Then people’d
know this was a cattle country. Since we’ve
gone as far as we have, the thing to do is to go all
the way. And we might work it yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>José’s face showed that he was interested.
“Poison?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You can’t never tell about poison. Sheep
are queer critters. When they’re well fed they’ll
shy of anything that tastes queer. Think
again——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The only other way’s rifles—and that would
take a carload of shells. But I tell you—the
coyotes will slash a lot of ’em and run the rest
to death.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe—and maybe not. A coyote don’t
run sheep. They kill all they can, and then start
to eatin’. Of course there’s exceptions. It takes
a dog to slash a hundred of ’em in one night—and
run the rest——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant his words were drowned
out. A strange, formidable cry reached them
from behind the house: a long, far-carrying
chorus of savage voices. It rang shockingly
loud in the silent darkness. It was a symphony
of prolonged, deep bays,—a sound as terrifying
and menacing as any voice of the wilderness.
And an evil glitter came into Fargo’s eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The explosion of sound, blaring out so suddenly
in the stillness, had startled José; but he
caught himself at once. The cry ceased, the stillness
fell again. “Your pack of bear dogs!” he
exclaimed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. It was as if they heard us talkin’ about
sheep. It’s like they was tryin’ to tell us what
to do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was true. It might have been the voice of
an evil genius, prompting their vicious designs.
Fargo was a superstitious man, and now he was
tingling all over with hatred and malice, inspired
to the depths of his wicked being by the cry in
the darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” he whispered. “My pack of bear
dogs—ten of ’em, savage as wolves—and not to
be afraid of no wounded shepherd dog, and
tearin’ to pieces any one that tries to stop ’em.
They’ve told us how to solve our problem. And
I don’t see why I didn’t think of ’em before.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIV</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>It didn’t take Fargo long to perfect his plans.
As the dawn emerged he talked them over with
the Mexican, José, and the latter was ready with
any little suggestions that did not occur to his
chief. And the gray, soft, mysterious light of
early morning came into that conference—through
the stained and cobwebbed windowpane—and
found a darkness it could not alleviate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As they talked, the very atmosphere of the
room seemed to change. It was tense, poignant
as if with the remembered lusts and passions of
an earlier, more savage world. The little sounds
of a room in which two men talk together—the
stir of moving bodies, the creak of furniture, the
soft whisper of easy breathing seemed lacking
here. Both were motionless as two serpents that
lay in their sunbaths on their ledges, and thus an
insidious stillness dropped down in the little intervals
between their sentences.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The almost total absence of motion on the part
of those two conspirators could not have been
ignored. It implied only one thing: that their
thoughts were so commanding and engrossing
that even the almost unconscious movements of
the body were suspended. What motion there
was, was mostly only the deepening of the lines
on their dark faces.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This tenseness, this silence, these submerged
passions pointed to but one end. And the crime
would not be outside the pale of the laws of man
alone, but the basic laws of the forest as well.
The feast of death was to take place after all,—the
same delight of which Broken Fang, the
puma, was even then dreaming beside the sheep
camp on the far headwaters of Silver Creek.
But men, not wild beasts, were to be the debauchers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s the simplest way yet,” Fargo had whispered.
The veins stood out in his brutal hands.
“That pack of mine are devils—there’s no other
word for ’em—and once they get goin’, they’d
sweep through that flock of woollies like lightning.
You’ve heard of sheep-killin’ dogs before——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes—but your dogs ain’t never been sheep
killers,” the Mexican protested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What of that? They can learn fast enough.
They’d tear a man to pieces just as quick if I
didn’t keep ’em chained. I don’t see why I
didn’t teach ’em long ago—they’d be worth a
thousand coyotes for keepin’ this country clear of
sheep. Maybe you don’t know about sheep-killing
dogs. You might not have heard that in the
sheep country in the East one dog that once
got the habit will spoil the business for miles
around. You see, José, most animals don’t kill
more than they need; it’s an instinct with ’em, for
if they did they’d pay for it by going hungry
later. Nature has a way of teachin’ the wild
varmints what to do. But dogs have been domesticated
so long that they’ve forgotten most
of their instincts, and once they get started, once
the killin’ fever gets a hold of ’em, they don’t
know when to quit. There’s many a dog that
has slashed a hundred sheep in one night—jumpin’
from one to another, tearing out one
throat after another, and runnin’ the rest till they
die. It’s kind of a madness that gets a hold of
’em once they get started. True, my dogs ain’t
ever got the habit, but one taste will teach ’em.
And they’re half-wild already, as any man well
knows who seen ’em tear that little black cub-bear
to pieces last week. Just tore him to little
scraps of black fur.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo leaned back in his chair and laughed.
The sound burst out suddenly above the even
murmur of his talk, and it was no less terrible to
hear than the bay of the pack a few minutes before.
It was a wild, harsh sound,—and African
travelers might have been given cause to remember
the hyenas, laughing on the sun-baked hills.
It pleased him to recall that scene in the forest
beyond the creek, in which his pack of dogs had
killed the cub. It moved him in unlovely, dark
ways. The little bear had been a clumsy, furry,
amiable little creature—representing what is
perhaps the most lovable breed of all the wild
animals—and the pack had made short and terrible
work of him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s ten of ’em,” Fargo went on, “and
there ain’t no one to guard the flock. That one
big shepherd dog would last quick—he wouldn’t
be able to bluff off them hounds of mine like he
could bluff coyotes. And then they’d have the
time of their lives—the time of their lives.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You mean—take ’em and sick ’em on?”
José asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve got a better way than that. Of course
one of us will have to take ’em and show ’em the
way until they get on the track of the flock, and
of course that one will have to be me. I’m the
only living man that can handle ’em—you remember
the night that old Ben got out and how
he pretty near killed that little cowman from
Naptha. There’s a little medicine I’ve got to
give ’em before I go, and that means—for you to
take a little ride over to Newt Hillguard’s.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>José half-closed his eyes. He had begun to
understand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve always cussed at Newt for keepin’ that
little band of Shropshires in his back lot, but
I’m glad now he didn’t get rid of them,” Fargo
went on. “You’re to bring back a sheep in your
saddle—a lamb ’ll do, or any old ewe he was
about to slaughter. Then, after we get through
here, all I’ll have to do is start up the old Horse
Creek trail with that pack of dogs. It’ll be a
couple of hours before I can get started, and it’ll
take till dark to get to the sheep camp, but dark’s
the best time for a sheep-killin’ dog to work, anyhow.
The sheep are bunched together, and it
doesn’t take so much runnin’. And I got to be
on hand to call ’em back and round ’em up when
they’re done.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The face of the Mexican was suddenly
crafty. “I suppose wantin’ to see the fun
hasn’t anything to do with your goin’?” he
suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo laughed again. “I’m not sayin’ it
won’t be worth watching,” he agreed. “But you
know I can always round ’em up with my
whistle. José—to-night will see the end of the
sheep business for time to come.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They went about their preparations. They
ate their breakfast in the unsavory kitchen, then
José rode off to the ranch where Newt Hillguard
kept his little flock of thirty Shropshires. There
was no particular good in making full explanation
to Newt. He was a cattleman surely, his
little flock was just a diversion with him, but he
might not take fondly to any plan that would
make sheep killers out of Fargo’s pack of dogs.
Some night they might escape from their yard
and visit his own little flock. “The boys say
they’re tired of beef and want a mutton blow-out,”
José explained, “and I’m sent over here
to supply it. Will you sell me one of them sheep
of yours?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Seems funny to me,” Newt returned, “that
gang of Fargo’s wantin’ mutton. But I suppose
I can sell you one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Any old ewe’ll do,” José went on. “We
don’t want ’em to like it so well they’ll want it
often. The one you can sell me cheapest. We’ll
want it alive, too, ’cause we ain’t goin’ to have
him for a day or two. And once I’ve got to pack
him on the horse, maybe I’d better take a lamb.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The money changed hands, Newt gave in exchange
a few pounds of living flesh that blatted
feebly and struggled in José’s arms—with a
strange, frantic terror—as if in premonition of
its doom. The lips of the man set in a straight,
cruel line, and he rode with an unjustified swiftness
back to Fargo’s house.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was only one element of mercy in the
unmentionable scene that followed in the little,
tightly fenced enclosure behind Fargo’s house.
None whatever dwelt in the drawn faces of the
men, or in the savage, white-fanged creatures
that leaped so fiercely at the picket fence as the
men approached. But the time, at least, was
swift. It went almost too fast for Fargo’s liking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was only a single second of strange and
dreadful clamor within the enclosure, a glimpse
of white in the ravening circle of browns and
blacks, a smear of red and a faint cry that the
men strained to hear but which was lost in the
baying of the dogs. The pack had been given
its lesson. Fargo foresaw in their glaring eyes—as
they came rushing back to the palings again—the
success of his plan.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Get inside the house and shut the door,” he
commanded. “I can’t answer for this blood-thirsty
crowd. And do it quick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For Fargo knew that the sooner he got started
the more successful would be his undertaking.
He didn’t want their wild excitement to have a
chance to die down. The great hounds saw his
gun in his arms, a pungent stain of red was still
upon their fangs, and they seemed to know that
rapturous events were in store for them. The
Mexican withdrew, Fargo unlatched the gate of
the enclosure, and the animals leaped forth
around him. In a moment he had swung on his
horse; and followed by the crying pack galloped
up the trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He rather hoped he would meet no pedestrian
on the trail. He had never seen his dogs in such
a savage mood, and he began to doubt his own
ability to control them. There could be no doubt
about the effectiveness of the medicine he had
administered. The hunting lust was upon them
as never before. And perhaps his eager spirit,
his own madness went into them, and excited
them all the more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a long, hard ride before he came to that
pine-clad heart of Smoky Land which Crowson
had rented for a sheep range. He had been able
to lope only a small part of the way: the trails
were too narrow and steep. The dogs ran more
silently now; yet with noticeable eagerness.
During the long, still afternoon they were
grimly patient, and they skulked like wolfine
ghosts through the growing shadows of the twilight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But their excitement began to return to them
as the dark came down. It was the hunting
hour: everywhere through the forests the beasts
of prey were emerging from their lairs. The
hounds were domestic animals, but some of the
old wilderness madness revived when the wind
came whispering its breathless messages through
the trees. Their blood seemed to turn to fire.
Time and time again Fargo had to utter the
shrill whistle that called them to heel,—a signal
that he had laboriously taught them and which
they now seemed to be forgetting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo knew these mountains end to end, and
he did not often mistake the trails. But soon
after nightfall the conviction grew upon him that
he was taking much too long to reach the sheep
camp. Besides, the mountains didn’t lie in just
their proper places. The tall top of Grizzly
Peak was too far to the right to suit him. He
knew perfectly that he was within a very few
miles of the camp, yet he chafed under the delay.
And the darkness steadily deepened, dimming
the landmarks by which he kept his directions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He headed on, at first irritated, then apprehensive,
finally wrathful and savage. He began
to fear that possibly he would have to wait until
dawn for the work. The dogs, however, were
growing constantly more excited and harder to
control.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The last grayness faded into the gloom, and
Fargo could hardly see the trail. But he was a
mountain man, and he knew what to do. In the
last dim glimpses of late twilight the peaks had
begun to wheel around where he wanted them
to be, and he knew that the camp was now only
three or four miles distant at most. And the
proper course was to sit down, rest, and wait for
the moon to rise. Then he could locate his landmarks,
start down the ridge to the river, then up
its banks to the camp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He thought that as far as human beings went,
he had the mountains all to himself. He supposed
that in the camp—now certainly nearing—a
dead herder lay face buried in his tree-bough
pallet; but Fargo was not the kind of man to
whom such a fact as this preys on the mind. He
did not dream that the body had already been
found, that the herd was guarded, and that even
now the daughter of his enemy was waiting for
this same moon,—to start forth to find the missing
members of the flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo watched the silver glint in the sky; he
saw the white disk roll forth. The light grew, it
leaped down between the trees, it worked nebulous
magic on the floor of the forest, it enchanted
the whole wilderness world. He located his
peaks. And all at once he knew his exact position,—scarcely
three miles from the camp and
squarely across the ridge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He got up and started on with the great
hounds. At first they were curiously silent and
alert. They did not frisk and run as in the first
hour on the trail, and to a casual eye their excitement
had died within them. For the moment
they seemed perfectly under control. Yet Fargo
watched them, wondering. They were moving
with a peculiar stealth, and once the man caught
the unmistakable glare of their yellow-green
wolfine eyes in the moonlight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that instant Ben, the old pack leader, spoke
in the silence. It was a sharp bay, and momentarily
every dog stood lifeless. And then with
a wild cry they darted into the shadows.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo whistled frantically, but the pack didn’t
seem to hear. Their loud and savage bays obscured
all sound. Oaths fell from the man’s lips—sounds
scarcely less savage than the bay of the
dogs themselves—and at first he could see nothing
but failure for his scheme.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It might be, however, that they were right and
he was wrong. The dogs were not heading
toward the sheep camp. But it was wholly possible
that the flock had fed out far that day, had
found another drinking place, and thus had not
returned to the vicinity of Silver Creek; and the
hounds were already on their trail. This theory
had to include the death of the wounded shepherd
dog, for the first instinct of the animal likely
would have been to keep the flock near the tent
of his dead master.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His own course was clear. He would cross
the ridge to the camp, try to locate the flock, and
then attempt to collect his hounds and bring
them to it. He believed that if they were on a
false scent they would return to him soon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the moon looked down and saw that their
instincts had told them true. They had crossed
the tracks that the flock had made on the outward
feeding from the camp that day: they had
only to follow it, circle about where Spot, the
flock leader, had led, and find the sheep where
they had bedded down at night. Yet they
seemed to know that certain sport was in store
for them before ever they made the long loop
around to the sheep camp. For somewhere between
was huddled a little group of a hundred
stragglers,—the band that Hugh had lost during
the day’s grazing and which even now Alice had
gone forth to find.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XV</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Like a song soaring over the camp fire, clear
and wonderfully sweet in the hushed and tremulous
darkness, Alice’s laugh had been her only
good-by to Hugh. He hadn’t approved of this
night journey after the lost sheep. He was new
to the mountains, yet he had sensed a vague and
whispered menace in the dark forest into which
the trail would lead her. He had protested to
the last instant; he wanted to go himself, and he
had felt a weight of apprehension and concern
that she could not explain away. The very
breathlessness in the air was in some way sinister;
the light patches of moonlight in the big
timber only accentuated its mystery, only darkened—by
light of contrast—the gloom of the
thickets. Yet her only answer had been a laugh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was true that the laugh was not really one
of mirth. She felt no fear, but she was not
amused at his. Rather she had laughed in simple
and undeniable joy, and she didn’t quite know
its source. It was a little gratifying that this
bronzed, well-bred man should be anxious about
her. It touched her more than she was ready to
admit, even to herself. Yet she really thought
that his concern was unjustified.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She knew these mountains. She felt that in
some measure at least she had mastered them.
She could shoot straight with her pistol: if indeed
Broken Fang—the great cougar that had begun
to display a rather disquieting arrogance in the
presence of men—should find and follow her
trail, she had full confidence that the fire from
her six pistol cartridges would frighten him away.
She had lived long enough in the mountains to
know that rare and few are the wild animals that
will even menace human beings. The coyotes
were abject cowards, the ordinary run of
cougars—although sometimes given to trailing a
night wanderer for long and unpleasant hours on
the mountain trails—always seemed to lack
courage to attack, and the wolves would not have
their pack strength until the winter. The wolf
pack in the snow, she knew perfectly, was not a
thing to trifle with. But the gray creatures were
living singly now, or in pairs, and starvation had
not yet come upon them. In these days of full
feeding they were scarcely braver than the
coyotes. It seems to be true that any animal that
hunts in packs or groups acquires a ferocity, a
wild and frenzied courage not possessed by the
lone hunter. Partly it is a matter of mob psychology,
partly a sense of resistless strength,—but
its reality naturalists are unable to deny. It
can be seen even in the swarms of miniature ants
that—with appalling ferocity—will attack the
greatest creatures of the wild. But there were
no packs here. The moonlit aisles were safe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet she did not want to go. It was as if the
voice of reason within her—the voice that urged
her forth—were obscured by the incorporeal
voices that spoke in her inner being. One was
that of the forest, and it spoke in warning.
“Come not on to my darkened trails,” it might
have said. “They are thine in the daylight
hours, but at night they belong to the beasts.
This is the time of talon and fang, and thy flesh
is tender. I am old and wise, but also I am new,
with the newness of the young world. And my
spirit is Death.” And the other voice was that
of the ruddy camp fire behind her. “Stay, stay,
stay,” it crackled. “Here is thy hearth and thy
heart. Stay, tender one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>As the shadows encroached and the firelight
grew ever more dim, she found herself looking
back—again and again—to the bright blaze.
To-night it was home, and these forest trails were
dark and silent. She entered the forest, but ever
she saw its cheering gleam between the trees,—a
bright haven of refuge where Danger could not
come. She didn’t entirely understand. She had
ventured forth into the forests at night before,
but never with such regret.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She could still see the form of Hugh seated
beside the fire; and the sight moved her
strangely. But she would not admit—even to
herself—that part of the appeal of that bright
circle of light was due to his presence. It had
never seemed so dear, so much like home before,
but it could not be because of the straight, manly
form that abode there. Was he not just a lowly
sheep herder, a weakling whose metal had been
proven false in the crucible of life? What did
he mean to her: just an employee that would
soon pass on to other occupations. Yet she had
felt wholly secure and comforted beside his fire.
She remembered the play of his shoulders as he
had hewed the fir log; and she found herself
longing for his protection now. Yet what right
had she to think that this weakened city man
would be a fort in time of stress? She was of the
mountain strain, and unlike many of her city
cousins she did not accept the fact of his masculinity
alone as being a tower of strength. Such
dangers as did abide in the Smoky Land forest
were no respecters of the males of the species:
strength and courage alone must be tried and
proven. Hugh had failed in life, she thought;
why should he not also fail in courage and
strength? The mountain women do not love
weak men. They are down to realities, life is a
constant battle for existence, and they want a
warrior—whether gentleman or not—beside
them through the long, dangerous hours of night.
Hers were the mountain standards. And what
could she expect from Hugh?</p>

<p class='pindent'>She headed into the forest, and she saw the
light of the camp fire wink out behind her. It left
her singularly alone. A vague depression came
upon her, an uneasiness that she could not name
or place. There was a sense of utter isolation
never felt before. The feel of her pistol butt in
her pocket—her belt had been packed among the
supplies—reassured her. Then she hastened on,
down the moonlit trail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The forest was never so mysterious. The
moonlight had struck away all sense of familiarity.
The silver patches between the trees were
of fairyland, the dusk of the shadowed thicket
was incredibly black; even the changeless pines,
majestic and inscrutable emblems of the wilderness,
were like great, nebulous ghosts of giants.
The woodland was full of ghosts: fleet-footed
phantoms that sped along the trail before her,
ghostly shadows that leaped behind; little, feeble
ghosts of noises that couldn’t be real, and ghostly
messages in the wind that whimpered and cried
in the distant thickets. Yet she could not feel
the wind’s breath on her face. Rather the forest
was breathless, tense, vaguely sinister as never
before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Steep was the trail she took, and ever the silence
seemed to deepen. She kept watch ahead
for the flock, pale white in the moonlight. She
found herself listening closely for any sound that
might indicate their position, either the faint
bleat of the ewes or the triumph cries of such
beasts of prey that had killed from their numbers.
But while she did not hear these things, the silence
was full of other, lesser sounds. All the
creatures of the forest were stirring in their night
occupations, and so deep and unfathomable was
the stillness that it seemed to her that she could
discern their each little motion. Sometimes it
was the distant tread of the deer in the buckbush.
No rains had fallen since April; the brush was
dead and dry as she had never before seen it, and
even the stalking folk made a misstep occasionally.
She heard the Little People stirring in the
leaves; once a gopher, once a porcupine rattled
his quills with a pretended fierceness a short distance
off the trail, and once a lynx mewed like a
domestic cat behind her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She hastened on. She turned into a little valley
that she knew,—a place the mouth of which
was obscured by brush and in which a wing of the
flock might have been easily lost. And then she
found the white band, bedded down for the night.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There had been casualties earlier in the evening,
but mostly the beasts of prey had not yet
found them. She started to drive them the long
three miles back to camp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Still the moonlight worked its conjurations in
the forest; and she felt a growing discomfiture.
At first she laid it to nerves. She had been tired
after the day’s ride, and perhaps the long walk
after the sheep had overtaxed her already exhausted
body. The sense of oppression, of distant
and unfamiliar peril in the forests about her
grew ever more pronounced. She tried in vain
to hurry the sheep. Never, it seemed to her, had
they moved so slowly. The first mile took interminable
ages, the second was too long for belief.
No luxury, no achievement by which
women usually gauge happiness could mean so
much to her to-night as that little bright circle
in the distant camp over which Hugh stood
guard.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was on the last mile by now, and she kept
straining to see the first gleam of the camp fire
through the trees. Perhaps all her apprehension
had been but fancy, after all. It was only a little
way farther—scarcely a mile—and the adventure
would soon be over. The forest was oddly
hushed and breathless.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant a strange cry came tingling
up to her through the unfathomable depths
of forest. It was such a sound as does not catch
the consciousness immediately, beginning too
dim and faint even to recognize as sound, and at
first she found herself doubting its reality. The
least rustle of the thickets beside her, the faintest
stir of the distant wind drowned it out. Yet
with such gradual encroachments as the hour
hand makes on the face of the watch, it swelled
and grew until all disbelief was dead, and all
other sensation transcended.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The deep silence of the primeval forest alone
had enabled her to detect it at first, but its quality
of obscurity slowly passed away. Soon she
had begun to have some idea of the quality of its
tones. It was slowly, steadily gaining, and the
only inference could be that whatsoever made
the sound was coming toward her at an incredible
pace,—something that ran behind her and
cried out in beastial savagery.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A frantic flood of thoughts swept over her:
blind hopes that the cool depths of her subconsciousness
refused to accept. Perhaps the cries
were of some wilderness hunter on the trail of
deer,—a trail that closely coincided with her own.
In a moment it would be just a thing to laugh at
and forget. But even her own prayers, her own
unquenchable spirit of optimism could not make
the truth untrue. The grim fact slowly grew
and strengthened that whatever ran behind her
was on her own trail, that she was being remorselessly
hunted through the still aisles of the forest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wild cries were louder now, evolving from
vague and distant rumblings to prolonged and
savage bays, ferocious as any wilderness cry she
had ever heard. It sounded like a <span class='it'>pack</span>,—that
terrible organization that knows no fear and
against which not even the stately elk can stand.
The cries had a strange exultant quality, a sense
of power, and at the same time the hunting lust
that can be discerned in the yell of the wolf pack
in their first strength of autumn. Yet this was
no autumn. The leaves were yet unfallen. The
wolves were still mated, or else ran in pairs.
And a great fear began to creep like a poison
through her veins.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And ever the chorus grew louder, swelling into
a veritable thunder that seemed to shudder, with
long, undulating waves of sound, through the
hushed air. It seemed to her that she heard the
distant pound of running feet on the trail. And
now she no longer gave thought to what these
hunters might be. It no longer mattered. She
only knew that some new and terrible peril was
leaping forth upon her, a ferocious enemy that
would contest her effort to reach the safety of the
fire. The sheep broke into a run, and sobbing
she sped after them.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Landy Fargo tried to approach the sheep
camp with some caution. It was an instinctive
effort: he had not the slightest idea that the lone
human occupant of the little meadow could
waken from his deep sleep to hear him. Nevertheless,
Fargo didn’t believe in taking unnecessary
chances. He rode slowly, trying to avoid
the whip of dry brush against the horse’s body.
Yet it was to be noticed that the coyotes, lingering
hungrily at the flanks of the flock, slipped
from the trail when he was still two hundred
yards distant.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The thickets were unusually dry: they cracked
and popped as the horse passed through. Miniature
explosions of popping twig and crackling
brush followed every step of the horse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Still there was no one to hear him. The forest
was breathless. And all at once, through a rift in
the underbrush, he saw the gleam of Hugh’s
camp fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For an instant Fargo’s human faculties
simply and utterly deserted him; and he stood
gaping like a beast at the guttering flame. A
strange little shiver of cold and fear crept over
him. He had expected only moonlight and silence,
perhaps the bedded sheep unwatched and
a heap of gray ashes, but a herder’s well-mended
fire had not had a place in his calculations at all.
Twenty-four hours had passed since the murder,
and yet the flame still flickered like a soul that
could not pass. Was it a ghost fire: was the
shapeless shadow that he thought he could make
out beside it the specter of one who had risen
from Death to watch the sheep? The sight went
straight home to his dark superstitions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just for a moment he sat motionless in the
saddle; then he started to turn back. His eyes
bulged ever so slightly. And then a great cold
seemed to come down, stab, and transfix him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For a voice spoke from the camp. It came
clear and strong into the darkness where he
waited. “Who’s there?” some one asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Except for his sudden gusty breathing, Fargo
made no sound in reply. He started to turn his
horse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If you don’t answer, I’ll think it’s a coyote
and shoot,” the voice came again. “I give you
till I count three——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo had won his point by <span class='it'>bluffing</span> many
times, he had known how to call the bluffs of
other men; but he had no delusions about the
hard, quiet voice that came out to him from the
fireside. Very plainly the man meant what he
said. But at least it wasn’t Dan the herder who
had risen and spoken. The tones and words were
not the melodious utterances of the Italian laborer
who had been Hugh’s predecessor. The
only other explanation that occurred to Fargo
was that the murder had been discovered, and the
man who had called him was an officer of the law
who had been put on guard.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo instantly decided it would not be wise
to attempt to disobey these summons. Like most
wrongdoers he had an abject horror and fear of
the law, and the moment was of the greatest terror
he had ever known. Yet he dared not turn
and flee. In his panic he was unable to remember
that not in one chance out of a hundred could
a bullet find him in the darkness. For all he
knew the man at the fire was already staring at
him through his sights, and possibly the whole
camp was surrounded by the officers. His mouth
felt dry, his hands numb as he rode out into the
circle of firelight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then his fear changed in a moment to devastating
rage. The form was revealed quite
clearly now: simply that of a lowly sheep herder
in soiled clothes and with unshaven face. Had
José lied about the murder? Yet this man was
not Dan, the herder. There was nothing to believe
but that Crowson had already discovered
the crime and had hired a substitute.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was nothing to fear here. His arrogance
swept back to him and his eyes leaped savagely
over the trim form that now had risen to greet
him. It was a slender figure, the kind he could
hammer to paste beneath his flailing fists. He
swung down from the saddle, once more feeling
himself completely master of the situation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you mean?” he demanded savagely,
“hollerin’ out and threatenin’ me that
way.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh looked at him, considering just what he
had meant. And perhaps his lips drew up in a
faint smile. If there was one thing his experience
with the sheep had taught him, it was to
smile: smile at misfortune, smile at the little,
everyday comedy of life,—and smile with real
amusement at such storming, bullying men as
this. But it was true that a moment before he
had not been in the humor for mirth. He had
known at once that the step in the darkness was
not that of the coyote, or any of the hunters of
the wild. It was a horse, and its rider could kill
from a distance: perhaps it was the same foe that
had crept into camp the previous night and had
murdered Dan. His voice—he remembered
with a strange, inward pleasure—had sounded
level and clear; but nevertheless a wholly justified
apprehension had been upon him. He had
been entirely at a disadvantage. He made a
fair target beside the leaping flame and he could
not see his enemy at all. And he was still somewhat
white about the lips as he stood up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And if Fargo had only remained silent, Hugh
would have been willing to have welcomed him
at his fire. The loneliness of the wild places was
already upon him, and any stranger that walked
those darkened hills might have found shelter in
his own tent. And this was the man who—a few
days before—had been inwardly proud that he
never made chance acquaintances, that he never
accepted another for friendship or discourse except
through the channels of his own social plane.
It wasn’t being done by the men he knew: to arrive
at any comradeship without first a correct
introduction and then a certain amount of preliminary.
How great had been the change!
Yet in this case the man was obviously unfriendly;
and Hugh slowly stiffened beneath his
angry gaze.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you mean by it?” the man demanded.
“Hollerin’ out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, I meant——” Hugh replied, in a perfectly
casual tone, “exactly what I said. That
I’d shoot if you didn’t reveal yourself. I’m
against coyotes, wild or human. And what are
you doing here?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo noted with some amazement that the
tables had been—as if by a magician’s magic—instantly
turned about; and that he himself was
no longer the inquisitor. He bristled, furious
that this lowly herder should not instantly yield
to his own superiority. Yet he suddenly remembered
certain little facts that tended to restrain
him. The man was in his rights: and perhaps it
was best to have some explanation for his presence
on the night following a murder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t go making any inferences you’ll regret
later,” he warned. “I’m bear huntin’—got
a pack of dogs out there somewhere, and they got
away from me.” He stepped one pace nearer.
“And I want you to know I’m not expectin’ any
back talk from such as you. All I’d have to do
was to say the word, and old Crowson would fire
you in a minute.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re one of his friends, are you?” Hugh
asked easily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’ll do what I say—don’t you mind about
that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then perhaps”—Hugh struggled an instant
and caught at a name that Alice had spoken—“you’re
José Mertos.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo started—hardly perceptibly—and
caught himself at once. “Do I look like a
Mexican?” he demanded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just a bit stout for a Mexican,” Hugh went
on appraisingly. He didn’t know why, but a
slow anger had begun to take hold of him.
“Then maybe you’re—Fargo.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And what if I am?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The eyes of the two men met, and Hugh saw
the bulldog lips drawing back over the strong
teeth. The lids half-dropped over his own eyes,
and he stood as if deep in thought.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had been a little afraid, at first. Even
now he was not blind to the evident strength of
the formidable body, the huge fists, the brutal
jaws. Yet—he suddenly knew to his vast amazement—these
things no longer mattered. Instinctively
he knew that he was face to face with
a mortal foe; but he felt a miraculous trust in his
own strength.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know something about Landy Fargo,”
Hugh answered quietly. “He’s not the man I
let sit by my fire. And the sooner you get away
I think the better it will be.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo glared, and there ensued a half-second
of strained silence, of curious immobility on the
part of them both. The fire blazed beside them,
the shadows leaped and danced, far away the
moon gleamed on the white peaks of the Rockies.
The whole forest world was wrapped in impenetrable
silence. Fargo snarled, then started to
turn.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant each of them forgot—for
a little while—each other’s presence. They stood
wholly silent, scarcely breathing,—listening as
men listen when life itself is at stake. From far
away in the still forest—in the direction that
Alice had gone—both of them heard the faint,
savage bay of the hounds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No human being, at that distance, could mistake
the cry. The pack was hunting. It was
running its game. And from the wild excitement
and exultation of the clamoring voices, it
was plain that the trail was hot, that the hounds
were almost upon their prey.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh suddenly turned his eyes to Fargo, trying
to interpret the strange, exultant look in his
brutal face. His own eyes narrowed. Then he
started,—a strange convulsive jerk that no man
had ever seen in him before. It was an instinctive
recoil at a great dread and horror that suddenly
swept over him. There had been no
time for thought. It was as if a voice had
spoken, instantly and clear, and had told him
the real character of that wild hunt in the darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For he had heard, infinitely dim but sharp as a
needle prick through almost a mile of silent forest,
the explosion of Alice’s pistol. Some great
danger was upon her and her little flock; even
now, perhaps, she was fighting for her life. It
was a moment of crisis not alone for her but for
him: the time in which his metal would be tried in
the fire. He knew, surely as if a voice had told
him, that there were no seconds to waste.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” he said clearly, “I believe you’d better
stay here. I’ll take your horse.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no time to catch and saddle Alice’s
animal, feeding at the edge of the meadow.
There was no tone of request in the words. He
had simply given an order: with his very life he
would see that it was obeyed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You will, will you?” Fargo howled. “We’ll
see about that——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh reached for the reins, and it seemed to
him that Fargo’s hand was fumbling at his hip.
That in itself didn’t matter. Hugh only knew
that he wanted the horse and that nothing must
stand in the way. Fargo was shouting, his dark
mouth was open. And Hugh lashed out with his
fist, aiming straight for the savage lips.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He struck with all his strength, scarcely in
rage but just as a means to an end. He had
never fought before, yet the blow came unerringly
and with terrific power. There could be
only one result to such a blow as that. He dimly
heard Fargo grunt—like a beast as it falls below
the butcher’s stroke—then saw him reel and fall.
He started to swing into the saddle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was better, he thought, that this man remain
unconscious until he returned. He didn’t forget
that he was still shepherd of the flocks and that
Fargo was an enemy. Some great test lay before
him, and the fewer his foes the better. He
leaped down—like a cougar springing from his
ambush—and struck once with each fist into the
soggy, brutal face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were terrific blows, but expedience,
rather than cruelty, was the motive behind them.
Hugh did not even wonder at himself. He
swung lightly on to the horse and lashed it to a
gallop.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>These were not wolves. This fact dawned
upon Alice Crowson, running her little flock at
top speed toward the camp, before ever she saw
their savage forms burst forth from the thickets
behind and even before she discerned the twitch
and leap of their shadows in the distant stretch
of moonlit canyon. Only in the starving time
of winter had wolves approached with such terrible
fearlessness and frenzy. Nor was the cry
that long, strange running song of the wolf pack.
She knew their breed. They were enormous
hounds: such a savage pack as might have started
forth from some awful Underworld of fable.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And it would have been better were they
wolves. Not for nothing has man waged immemorial
centuries of warfare, not only upon
wolves but on the great felines as well. They
have been taught a wholesome respect for the tall
breed that has come to dominate the earth, and
much hunger and madness must be upon them
before they will dare raise fang or claw against
him. But it is not this way with dogs. They
have lived among men since the first days of the
cave dwellers; they have found men out; they
have been willing slaves and faithful servants,
and once the impulse comes to attack, there is
no ingenerate barrier of instincts to hold them
back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Alice glanced behind, and the Little People
that watch with such bright eyes all the dramas
of the forest heard her utter an unfamiliar sound.
It sprang instinctively to her lips. “Hugh!”
she cried to that beetling silence. “Help me,
Hugh.” Yet she knew that she cried in vain.
She was still more than half a mile from the
camp; and Hugh could not hear her, and he
could not save.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For the pack had revealed itself. There was
a stretch behind her almost bare of underbrush;
the great trees laid shadows across it like iron
bars across the windows of a cell, and shapeless
black shadows were leaping across it. There
was a countless number of them, and they seemed
to be overtaking her with heart-breaking rapidity.
Instantly she knew that she could not hope
to reach the camp before they would be upon
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She must not permit herself to lag behind.
Her place was with the sheep. The savage
hounds were on their track, and her one hope was
that her presence, with the aid of the pistol,
might hold them off until she could head the
helpless band into the camp. She tried to blind
her eyes to another, more dreadful, possibility.
This was no time to admit it into her thoughts.
But surely, surely they would not attack <span class='it'>her</span>.
Dogs always barked and menaced, but they
rarely really attacked human beings. Yet the
thought kept creeping back, haunting her, filling
her—in those little seconds of stress in which the
pack leaped nearer—with an unnamable horror.
It couldn’t be that they were so frantic that they
would tear her down in order to get at their prey.
Fate did not have that in store for her at least,—their
cruel fangs at her tender flesh, their leaping,
frenzied bodies lingering just an instant beside
her, then racing on after the terrified sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It occurred to her that there might be time,
even yet, to spring up a tree and leave the sheep
to their fate. Yet was not she the shepherdess,
the guardian of the flock? But she saw the issue
clearly, and her eyes glanced about for some tree
with branches low enough where she could climb
to safety. But already that chance was lost.
She was in a region of open forest—great trees
standing one by one with branches starting fully
fifty feet above ground—and even now the dogs
were at her heels.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She swung about, she saw their huge, dark
forms in the moonlight. No man could look into
their yellow-green eyes and doubt the madness
that was upon them. The pack seemed to divide,
some of them closed in, the others circled about
and arrested the flight of the sheep. They drew
up, wholly enclosed by the savage ring. And
Alice reached for her pistol.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Through its long years that forest had never
beheld a stranger scene: the huddled band of
white sheep, the girl—the eternal shepherdess of
the wilderness—standing guard over them, the
savage pack in its grim circle. Over it all abided
the mystery of the moon, and ranged about were
the tall, impassive pines. The high range behind
was a sweep of incredible beauty. But just
an instant the tableau endured. It broke, the
enchanted immobility of the forms gave way to
lightning movement, the shadows leaped—met—sprung
apart with the sense of infinite motion,
the whole scene was in an instant the wild confusion
and stress of a nightmare. The hounds
sprang toward the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Alice screamed, cried out, then fired her pistol.
Her aim was none too good the first shot. Her
terror cost her the steadiness of her hand. Yet at
once she recalled the dreadful fact that the only
shells she carried were in her pistol, her reserve
supply having been packed among her camp
supplies, and she must not waste one. But the
leaping dogs were an almost impossible target:
her second shot succeeded only in scratching
along the shoulder of Old Ben, the pack leader,
arousing his savagery all the more.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sheep were dying now. Already the
scene was one of unspeakable carnage. Yet it
was true that the full madness of the feast of
death was not yet upon them. They lingered to
worry their dead before springing to a fresh victim.
And such times gave Alice her only feeble
chance to use her pistol.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The third shot went true: the dog fell kicking
in the dry pine needles. Two of the others,
maddened by the sight of the death struggle,
sprang with revolting fury upon his defenseless
body. She fired at them, sobbing when she saw
she missed again. It was her fourth shot; and
only two remained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A pistol has never the power of a rifle. It
lacks the ability to shock and stun, and, worse,
has nothing of its deadly accuracy. And it was
all too plain that she had not succeeded in terrifying
the pack. Still they plunged at the sheep,
avoiding only those that were crowded about her
knees, and their fury was increasing with every
instant. Every breath saw more of their domestic
instincts fall away from them, giving way to
the deadly passions of the wild.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She fired the fifth time, and once more she shot
true. The dog died in the pine needles. Then
she heard the pistol’s sharp sound again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then, at the darkest thought of all, a sob
caught at her lips. Perhaps she should not have
fired that last, little remaining pistol ball. For
she looked and saw that a new madness, a more
terrible ferocity had come upon the pack.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps it was just that they were launching
full upon the feast of death at last. Perhaps the
sheep died too tamely, and in their pack strength
they were swept with new desires. The pungent
smell of blood, the shots, the casualties in their
own ranks, and the sight of this slight, sobbing
figure in the middle of the white band filled their
canine brains with fury and their veins with lust.
Their excitement was at the highest pitch: and
she raised her voice in a frantic scream for help.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For her eyes had dropped down to Ben, the
terrible leader of the pack; and his glowing eyes
were no longer fixed upon the sheep. Instead
he was crouched, snarling,—just out of leaping
range in front of her; and white foam was at his
fangs. And then he came creeping toward her,
across the blood-stained pine needles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Out of the corner of her eyes she saw other
black forms, all of them snarling, all of them
stealing along the flanks of the little flock in her
direction. There was no defense. The last cartridge
in her little pistol had been spent. Regret,
infinitely bitter, seized her at the realization that
the last shot should have been saved for her own
moment of ultimate need.</p>

<hr class='tbk102'/>

<p class='pindent'>Darting down the narrow game trail, Hugh
Gaylord sped in the direction of the shots. In
all the forest dramas that the pines had looked
down upon—the lightning flight of the deer before
the wolf pack, the elk speeding madly with
the lynx at his flanks—they had never seen a
more desperate ride, a wilder race. He had
lashed the horse into the fastest pace it knew: not
loping, not running easily, but a frantic run to
burst open the heart and force the jets of blood
through the walls of the veins. Hugh was riding
for Alice’s life, and the least fraction of the
last second might hold the issue.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had only one thought and one prayer: that
he could arrive in time. He scarcely tried to
guide the horse. He left it to the animal’s instincts
to keep to the trail. It was only a little
moonlit serpent between walls of brush or
through the open tree-lanes; it had treacherous
turns, and here and there great logs had fallen
across it, yet the reins hung loose and he flailed
at the animal’s side with the strap ends. He
didn’t know when a low-hanging limb of a tree
would crush his skull, when the horse would trip
and hurl him to his death. These things simply
did not matter. They scarcely entered his mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All thoughts of self, even realization of self-identity
was gone from him: he was simply the
rescuer, speeding to give aid. He suddenly
knew—in a blinding flash of light—that in this
undertaking not even his own life mattered a
hair. If she had been a stranger to him, even the
lowliest herdsman, Hugh Gaylord would still
have raced to give aid. The Old Colonel had
not been mistaken in his judgment of Hugh’s
basic metal, and he would have stood, bravely
and strongly, this elemental test of manhood.
But this was more. The forest was shadowed,
the trail was dark, yet Hugh saw more clearly
than ever before. Life and death were not the
only issues now. All of infinity, it seemed to
him, hung in the balance; and no inward doubts,
no voice of reason could make it less.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In one instant he realized that Alice was in her
own being his life and death, his heaven and hell,
his spirit and his world and his stars. She called
him through the night, and as long as life dwelt
in his body he would fight toward her. Her
hands reached out to him, and he would grasp
them boldly across the yawning chasm. Danger,
death, travail and pain were but gifts to
give, freely, with never a regret. The way was
dark, but an inward light had come to him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He heard the second shot, then the third and
the fourth. He sped on. The clamor of the
pack seemed just at hand. Sharp and piercing
above it the last shot reached him. And then
there was a long delay, a grim silence that
seemed to tear him to pieces with horror. Was
the fight over? Did she already lie still? The
pack, also, was ominously silent, snarling rather
than baying. The pistol was empty,—and Hugh
guessed the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To Alice, in that forest nightmare of terror,
the last hope seemed gone. The great hounds
were creeping toward her, strangely wolfine in
their stealth, and it seemed to her that their
muscles were gathering to leap. She alone stood
in the way of the gratification of their lust. Was
not the death-feast waiting, with only her frail
body and her pistol, oddly silent, to stand
between? Besides, their madness was at its
height.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hold firm,” a voice kept pleading in her ears.
It was the voice of her own being, an inner
knowledge that she must still look straight into
those lurid eyes. She must not yield herself to
terror. To turn, to waver but an instant meant
that those white fangs would flash toward her
throat. And now the last little vestige of her
dominance over them was spent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She couldn’t hold them at bay any more. Ever
they were escaping her, they were crouching
lower, their fangs were bared and gleaming. And
she had thrown away the last, grim chance that
her pistol had afforded. No shot remained to
put her forever beyond the ravening circle’s
power to harm. The last gate of mercy was
irremediably closed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was no longer aware of her own screams—scream
after scream that soared and throbbed
and died in the silence. They carried far, and
they wakened strange conjectures in the dark
minds of the coyotes, skulking on a distant trail.
The prey was at bay, then, the coyotes knew,—the
dog pack was at the kill, and, they trembled
and shivered themselves with passion. Hugh
heard the sounds, and they were like strangling
cords about his throat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sounds seemed only to further madden the
dogs. There was nothing for them to fear—the
pistol was silent, the tall, erect form among the
sheep had not the strength of the least of them.
She stood so slight, so appalled, no more to be
feared than one of the ewes that now lay so silent,
its whiteness so streaked and stained with red, in
the pine needles. Her fate could be the same as
that of the lamb, thrown by Fargo to their kennels.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The moment of silence and waiting was almost
at an end. In an instant dreadful activity would
return to those tense figures, just as when they
had attacked the sheep. One little breath remained.
Her faltering hands clasped at her
breast, as if to shield it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And then her dull, terror-dimmed eyes saw a
strange thing. At first there was only disbelief,
then amazement, then a rapturous flood of hope.
For the fierce eyes of the dogs were no longer
upon her. It was as if they had forgotten her
existence, but rather that their attentions had
been fixed and held by something beyond the
wall of thickets. They were gazing beyond her,
and all of them were growling, uneasily, deep in
their throats. And at last, in the little interludes
between her screams, she heard the wild
hoofbeats of the approaching horse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh swept up to her, not daring to fire at
first. The dogs were too near to her for that.
He sprang with incredible strength from the
horse’s back, and the butt of his rifle swung high.
And there was a strange, half-strangled shriek
of a dying hound as the blow struck home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And that was the first blow of a mighty battle—a
fierce conflict to the death that may—for all
human beings may know—be cave talk among
the beasts until the forests grow old and die.
The rifle butt, reinforced with iron, withstood the
force of the shock, and he swung it down again.
Hugh fought with the fury of a wild creature
himself, and behind it was the high purpose and
the inner strength that has made man the ruler
and master of the earth. But it lasted only a
moment. For a time that seemed interminable
the animals leaped at the tall figure among them,
their fangs tore his flesh and his clothes, and he
swung his weapon back and forth like a battle-ax
of old. But he was the master, he was of the
dominant breed, and more than anything else in
the face of this crisis he was not afraid. And
the coward that dwells just under the skins of
such beasts as these came forth and claimed
them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They broke and fled, one by one, and many
were those that lay with broken backs at his feet.
The first law of the forest is that it is better to
run away than to die; but now they were out of
striking range he opened fire upon them with his
rifle, and with amazing, deadly accuracy. The
air was full of their dying screams. No longer
would the pack chase the black bear through the
ridges. Their strength was broken and Fargo’s
plan had failed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the moment meant more than this. To
Alice it was deliverance in the last instant of
despair. Now she lay fainting among the fallen,
but Hugh, bleeding and triumphant, saw that
she was uninjured. To Hugh it was almost a
justification of life itself. He knew the joy of
victory, the glory of strength.</p>

<hr class='tbk103'/>

<p class='pindent'>And Hugh’s strength was still upon him
when, after certain hours were done, he came
back to the prone body of Fargo—consciousness
only half returned to it—beside the dying fire at
the sheep camp. He had been sleeping peacefully
and was not easy to waken.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You can have your horse now,” Hugh had
said, when at last he gained the man’s attention.
He spoke quite clearly and distinctly, and all
matters returned to Fargo’s consciousness with a
rush. “And, of course, you can have your dogs,
too. There’s quite a little heap of them for you
back there in the forest.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It seemed to Fargo, when he went to look, that
only a laugh followed him out of the firelight.
It was to haunt him for months, that laugh.
There <span class='it'>was</span> quite a heap of them,—an impotent
heap that Fargo stood by clear into the dawn,
strange fumes of rage and hatred in his brain.
The buzzards dropped down one by one to see
what had interested him.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVIII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>The summer days dragged by, one by one,
until they were all gone. Moons waxed and
waned, annual plants budded, flowered, and
died, the glossy green of the pine needles changed
to a dusky blue; and all of these things were as
they should be. There was, however, one important
and disastrous omission. No rain had
fallen since April.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was bad for all the forest in general and
very bad for certain people in particular. Of
course, the little underground folk, such as the
digger squirrels and gophers, didn’t particularly
care. Their small stomachs seemed to be lined
with fur; and the dryer the brushwood the easier
they could gnaw it. Old Urson, the porcupine,
might have found this arid season quite to his
liking. But it was more than possible that he
didn’t even know it hadn’t rained. For Urson
is ever lost in a strange apathy, a mental stupor,
and life must be to him an inscrutable mystery
without head or tail. He is guileless and stupid
and so slow that even a cub-bear can overtake
him (although clumsy little Woof, because of
certain removable decorations on Urson’s back,
would not care to do it a second time) and one of
his only two advantages is an utter indifference
to the water supply. He can get along very well
on the moisture in the tree limbs on which he
browses. His other advantage is, of course, a convertible-armor
arrangement that he uses for a
back. One minute, and Urson looks sleek and
almost as handsome as, say, a dromedary seen
through the wrong end of a telescope. The next,
and he becomes a formidable bundle of bristling
spines, a veritable burr that is most painful to
touch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Of course the poison people did not care.
They could swim on demand, of course, but they
were not fond of water. If rain came any time
during the following winter it would be soon
enough for them. They lay in heavy sleep on
the rock ledges where the heat waves danced. It
isn’t wise, however, to put one’s trust in that
slumber and go climbing over those sun-blasted
rocks with unprotected ankles. A rattlesnake
may look dead as last year’s leaves, he may lie so
still that even the buzzard—in the sky—is deceived,
and yet he can spring straight out of his
dark, wicked dreams and bury his hypodermic
needles, filled with as deadly a poison as a scientist
can concoct in his laboratory, in the exact
spot of man’s flesh he chooses. The heat waves
danced and spiraled in the air, the rocks grew too
hot to touch, and still the serpents lay in their
heat trance, wholly content. And lastly, the
buzzards had no complaint with the drought.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For disaster to the forest creatures always
means triumph to the buzzards. They are the
undertakers, the followers of the dead. If <span class='it'>all</span>
the streams and <span class='it'>all</span> the springs should dry up,
the buzzards would be in their glory. There is a
legend, passed down from mother to fledgling
among them, that long ago such a drought did
happen, and that is what the ancient birds think
about when they soar so endlessly in the sky.
And there is a prophecy that some time such an
hour of glory will come again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the deer found poor feeding. The grass
was dry as dust, the leaves crinkly and crisp,
their favorite saltlicks were hard, dry mud.
Most of the springs were dried up, the lesser
tributaries of Silver Creek were only successions
of stagnant pools in which the silver people were
already dying and turning white bellies to the
sun. The grubs that the old black bear loved
were dried to little flakes, like grease spots, on
the dead logs; and the berries withered and
dropped off before they ever ripened. The
wolves ran their game, and since in the hot, stifling
days exhaustion came quickly to their prey,
perhaps they benefited, rather than suffered,
from the drought. But these gray hunters can
always be expected to benefit. “Mercy from
Cold-Eye is the season that betrays the wolf,” is
one of those strange maxims among the forest
people, and it needs, like most of the forest sayings,
a certain amount of interpretation. Cold-Eye
is the forest name for the rattlesnake, and
no man who has seen the evil diamonds in his
head can doubt that it is a good one. And mercy
is the one thing that can never be expected from
the rattler. It is the same as saying that it will
be a snowy day in July when the wolf cannot
turn the most far-spread disaster to his own account.
Everything always turns out all right
for the gray rangers. And maybe that is the
reason why, in spite of endless centuries of warfare
with men, they still fill the autumn woods
with their songs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Broken Fang, the great tawny king of the
pumas, and all his lithe and deadly younger
brethren almost starved to death. Their whole
hunting success depended on a noiseless stalk
upon a breed of creatures with ears sharp enough
to hear the predatory beetles utter their kill
screams in the air, and even the feline cushioned
feet could not step with silence in the dry brush.
At first there was only gnawing hunger and distemper,
then frantic ferocity, and finally almost
a madness wherein blue lights dwelt ever in their
eyes and agonized convulsions came to the muscles
of their throats. Even the porcupines heard
them come in time to climb out to the end of the
tree limbs, and by the middle of September
Broken Fang was ready and willing to lie in
ambush a whole night for the sake of a chipmunk
that might venture forth from its nest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The instinct of all the creatures was to climb
ever higher,—into the far, lovely grass slopes of
the high peaks. In these places the melting
snow, the colder nights and days, the moisture-laden
winds that swept across them removed, in
some degree, the effect of drought. The rains
would certainly come in October, but it began to
look as if, unless better hunting were found in
these high realms, the starving felines could not
survive the few weeks that remained. But there
were good prospects in these high trails. Dwelling
in the wastes of sliderock and snow field,
feeding on the grass slopes and scaling the loftiest
cliffs, lived the very monarchs of the mountains,
creatures that weighed up to two hundred
and fifty pounds, and who even in these starving
times were tender and fat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were the mountain sheep. Far above
timber line, in the land where the great snow
banks endured through the centuries, these hardy
creatures lived and died and had their being: the
finest game, the richest trophies, perhaps the
most interesting wild animals in all North
American fauna. Here old Surefoot and Argali,
the two greatest of the bighorn rams,
fought their battles in the fall. There were no
heavy thickets for ambush, but Broken Fang
could find niches and sharp turns in the trail
where he could wait for the ewes to wander by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Because they had a strong man and a faithful
dog to care for them, Crowson’s flock of domestic
sheep weathered the drought with little discomfort.
It was true that the herbage was dry and
tasteless, but the sheep are a breed that has
learned to fare well where cattle would die.
They nibbled the leaves and twigs; Hugh led
them to the greenest glens, the richest meadows,
and his weekly change of camp site found them
ever higher on the range where the effects of
drought were less. And in the last days of September
they were so high that the old leader of
the bighorn flock could look down and see these
tame brethren, like moving fields of snow, on the
slopes beneath.</p>

<p class='pindent'>These days had been good to Hugh. Every
one had been a fresh delight, every night had
fallen to find a greater strength and a higher
peace in his spirit. Was not this his destiny?
Had he not come to his Lost Land, after many
years of wandering on dark and unknown trails?
Could his home be elsewhere than on these
rugged mountains, the shadow of the forest upon
him, and the green glades lying in the beauty of
the moon? All his life, it seemed to him, his
spirit had gone groping—here and there—for
something it could never find; and here, behind
the flocks, it had found it at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He loved the long days of wandering, the
nights of vigil, the cool camps in the forest
shadow, the little daily adventures that were all
part of the eternal war that the powers of the
wilderness waged upon the dominance and works
of man. Sometimes these took the form of a
wolf, striking like a gray shadow from a clump
of underbrush and making his kill before Hugh
could raise his weapon, sometimes the measured
stalk of a cougar on the fold. The fight was
never done. Never the night descended but that
the age-old battle cry of the wild—the howl of a
wolf or a scream of a cougar in the gloom—would
come soaring, eerie and wild past all telling,
to his ears. And more than once the leaping
flame of his camp was the center of a circle
of fire,—twin disks, here and there, wherever the
eyes might fall.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The inanimate wild itself menaced the flock.
It wasn’t easy to find watering places in these
days of drought. There were deep glens—box
canyons the mountaineers call them—into which
stray bands from the flock would wander and be
unable to find the way out. Sometimes arms of
the brush thickets cut them off from their fellows,
and these were the times when Running
Feet and his savage companions were in their
glory. Hugh found an ever-increasing delight
in testing his own strength and skill against the
sinister forces of the wild. It was his joy to give
the flock the best possible care: keeping down
its casualties, choosing the best feeding grounds,
and protecting them from panic or excitement.
And as the result of his vigilance, few of his
sheep died of sickness, and the lambs grew like
weeds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know, Hugh,” the girl told him one
day, “you are a wonderful herder. We owe you
more than we can ever pay.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>No praise had ever meant so much. “I have
to be a good one,” the man replied, glowing. “I
have to make up for the years I’ve wasted. Besides—it
seems to come naturally to me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had never spoken a truer word. It seemed
to him that this was his ordained place,—behind
the flocks as they fed through the forest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He liked the long still nights in which he knew
the solace of the fire, and the whispering and the
mystery that crept to him from the forest. He
felt that he had lost all love of pretentious things.
His standards were true at last, and the little,
simple joys that came to him now meant more
than all the luxury of his former life. His pipe—no
longer tasting of varnish but cool and sweet—his
simple meals, the little triumphs of his
day’s work, his refreshing rest after the day’s
fatigue gave him unmeasured joy. He had the
lasting satisfaction of work well done, of time
profitably spent. Already, he reflected, he had
some hundred dollars to show his friends in the
Greenwood Club! But that famous organization
seemed infinitely distant now. It was as if
it had never been real: that all his days he had
roamed behind the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Strangely, he no longer even missed the old
days. The love of strong drink was gone from
his body. He didn’t look a great deal like the
man that the Old Colonel had sent forth from the
Greenwood Club. His hands and face had been
brown before, now they were almost as dark as
those of Pete, his late guide. A fast walk over
the ridges did not fatigue him now. He was
lean and hard as hickory, the muscles rippled
under his toughened skin, the sweet, mountain
air rushed deep in his lungs. It was almost recreation:
never in his old life had he known the
buoyancy, the tireless strength, the simple joy
of living vibrant and alive in every nerve. There
was a curious change in his eyes, too. The little
blood-splotches had quite gone from the whites,
and they were a firm, pale blue. The corneas
looked slightly more hard and bright, and the
lines that dissipation had enscribed were almost
gone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go for two weeks,” the Old Colonel had
said. “And Lord knows—it might make a man
of you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Two weeks! Three months had already
passed, and whether Alice knew it or not, that
remote possibility that the Old Colonel had
hoped for had already come true. Hugh had
done a man’s work: the degree had been won.
For the law that was true in the earth’s young
days is true to-day; it endures when scorn has
spent itself and false pride is humbled: that by
toil and conflict alone shall men find their place,
their honor, and their happiness. Hugh knew
now, as he watched his sheep, that this was the
world of the warrior, not the weakling; of those
who gave, not those who took; of those who stood
firm and endured, not those who broke and fled
from the crash of armor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He did not doubt but that he had already been
forgotten by the members of the Greenwood
Club. Three months had he been gone: another
played his hand at poker, another occupied his
favorite seat in the club dining room. But of
course they would forget him! There was no
comradeship of arms, no mutual memories of
trial and strife and conquest to hold them close
to him. He had supposed that he had known
them intimately, their natures and their souls,
but now he realized that they had been but
strangers, after all. Living an artificial life, he
had seen only exteriors. He had flattered himself—in
his subconscious mind rather than conscious—that
they were close and lasting friends.
Now he knew that only the fire of conflict and
stress can weld a lasting friendship between man
and man. Friendship is too dear and precious a
thing to find in soft ways. That, like all of the
other rewards of life, goes only to the warrior.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was forgotten: the night life of the club
whirled on without him. The talk was the same,
the lights glittered as ever, the crowds thronged
through the streets without, the same round of
gaieties made its lifeless and eternal circuit. By
a strange paradox he suddenly knew that if he
were remembered at all, it was by those who had
shared with him in his debauches. And after all
they had been the most vital part of his old life.
They were the thing most worth while. At least
he had <span class='it'>lived</span> then, he had known basic exultations
and passions, he had not been soft and dead.
There had been stress, wakefulness, vitality.
Perhaps their pleasure lay in the fact that they
had <span class='it'>simulated</span> life. But by the other clubmen,
men he had laughed with and talked to, he was
simply one who had been and passed on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was stirred to the depths of his being by
the contrast here. He laughed at the thought
that he might ever be forgotten by the companion
beside him now,—the great shepherd dog
that muzzled his hands. Had they not fought
on the same side in battle? Had they not faced
the same enemies, known the same stress, felt
the same pinch of cold in the crisp dawns and the
same cheering warmth of the fire? Had they not
gone together into still and sinister glens after
the lost sheep? They had braved the dangers,
they had endured the storms, they had fought
the same fight for the same reward,—the joy of
living and of service. Here was one of whom he
did not know merely the exterior. He felt the
animal’s heart pounding against his own body,
and he knew its strength and its courage. Its
fidelity, its love, its true and noble worth could
not be put into words. And here was a friend,
as long as blood stirred in his veins, who would
be faithful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No artificial lights glittered in these mountains.
Rather Hugh knew those known to the
shepherds who watched the sky for a sign in
olden days,—the peace of the stars and the glory
of the moon. The only talk was such as he and
the shepherd dog had together, the complaint of
the sheep, and the voices of the forest about him.
The crowds were far, the gaieties were known at
last as the dreams they really were, and in their
place was the silence, the inner peace, the joy of
conquest, and the white sheep, feeding in the
shadow of the high peaks. He was far and
alone, but he was content.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Hugh was not entirely forgotten. Even
now the Old Colonel sat in his chair in the lounging
room, his factory-tied tie at an angle at his
collar, his hands folded, his eyes seeing out and
beyond the city that stretched about him. And
to him, at least, Hugh was still a reality. Even
if he were dead—slain in some great stress in
those far Rockies—he was more vital and alive
in the Colonel’s eye than he had ever been before.
Had he won, or had he failed? Was he standing
straight or had he fallen? Had he gone down,
or even now was he sitting, redeemed and recreated,
beside his camp fire in the Land of Mighty
Men?</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIX</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Beyond all other joys and compensations for
these three months in Smoky Land, there remained—a
subject for humble thanks to the skies—the
comradeship of Alice. Every day it made
the struggle more worth while, his happiness
more complete.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She made periodical trips to his camps, bringing
food for himself and salt for his sheep, and
assisting him as he moved the flock from range
to range. He counted the days of her absence,
and the nights that she sat beside his fire simply
opened a new world to him. They had a thousand
things to tell each other: Hugh’s little victories
over coyotes and cougars, the new tricks
of Spot the flock leader, some little faithfulness
on the part of Shep, the dog, and their exultation
at the passing of the days. For if they passed
the present month in safety, if Fargo and his
gang did not rout them before October first, the
victory was won.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She cooked his meals and mended some of the
holes in his soiled clothing, and her laugh rang
with the bells of fairyland over their silent camp.
They had serious moments in which—with far-reaching
intimacy—they told each other their
own secret thoughts and philosophies of life—sober
talk such as was never heard in the rooms
of the Greenwood Club. For the first time in his
life Hugh had really known self-expression.
The inmost springs of his nature flowed forth.
And he was constantly amazed and delighted by
the girl’s ideas and points of view. There was
nothing particularly modern about them. In
fact, Hugh thought that they had passed from
the earth in his grandmother’s time. Of course
they were trite, perhaps they could have been
proven ridiculous by the logic of a realist, and
the only reason she had for them was the impulse
of her own conscience; yet Hugh found himself
staring at her as if she were a being from
another planet. But Hugh’s amazement was
due to his own lack of knowledge of the heart
of humanity. He would have been surprised to
know that ninety out of every hundred girls, east
and west and south and north, had the same illogical
conscience, the same high heart, the same
ideals. Although he would have tumbled over
backward if any one had told him so, Hugh
just hadn’t been around. He had known but one
little circle, and heretofore he hadn’t been able
to see outside it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Alice was girlish, spontaneous, unaffected to
the last degree. Sometimes they romped and
raced like children about their camp fire. They
exulted over their meals, they told high secrets,
they tingled and thrilled in the mystery of the
nights. She had a businesslike, matter-of-fact
way in going about her tasks that delighted the
man past words. She was as clean and sweet
and unspoiled as the mountain flowers that grew
about her,—but wholly able to take care of herself.
As she camped beside the flocks her pistol
was always in reach of her hand. And the very
ideas that Hugh so loved in her simply filled his
nights with horror.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Of course it was ridiculous,—but the thoughts
of lovers often are. And he did love her, with
all the earnestness of his wakened being, with a
growing, breathless love that seemed natural as
living. The point was passed, long ago, wherein
he could doubt that fact. And now he didn’t
even have self-wonder that he should have come
to these mountain realms and loved a mountain
girl. It seemed simply his own inevitable destiny.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And he was humble and fearful as a callow
boy about the whole thing. Nothing of his
herdsman’s life would have been so amusing to
the members of the Greenwood Club as this.
For Hugh had known women in plenty; he had
been an eligible in a circle where eligibles were
scarce, and these clubmen thought that his last
delusion in regard to them was gone. He had
been husband-hunted,—and the deer that has
been stalked by a cougar no longer sees beauty
in the lights of its eyes! But now his old arrogance
and sophistication had fallen away from
him. He searched frantically and in vain for
qualities within himself by which he might hope
to deserve this girl’s love.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Had he not been a waster, a slacker from the
works of men? Had he anything in general or
particular because of which he might expect a
girl to love him? The things on which he used
to pride himself had been suddenly revealed as
so much dust in his hands—inherited wealth,
social distinction, an influential ancestry. Here,
he rightly concluded, these three things were not
worth the powder to blow them up. He did remember,
with some pride, that he had a certain
amount of physical strength. Already that had
been of use to Alice, and the time might come
wherein it would be of use again. He was a
fairly able sheepman, and he had already earned
over a hundred dollars. But he felt like a peasant,
offering his heart to the queen of the realm.
It got down to a serious matter that as yet he
did not feel that he had justified his own existence,
that he had established himself in the great
world of men and toil, and that he had not yet
been purged by the fires of trial and stress, and
redeemed in battle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He mourned her when she left to bring supplies,
and welcomed her with the abandon of a
child when she came back to him. In the early
nights, in the fire’s glow, dreams of her were ever
with him, filling him with strange, happy glowings
and warm little quivers of delight. But his
love for her did not make him forget his sheep.
The great test by which his metal was tried lay
in his degree of success as herder of the flocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Never did he get away from a haunting feeling
that here—beside the white sheep—he was
face to face with life at last. Here, not in his
cities, were the realities, the essentials of life: the
feeding flock, the shelter, the circle of firelight
into which the powers of the wilderness dared not
stalk. Fresh and fresh he felt the age-old appeal
of the soil, the love of the throbbing earth, the inner
warmth, an undying and wondrous communion
with nature. He waged his war against the
forces of the wild, and the sense of destiny fulfilled
was ever with him. And why not,—for
were men strangers to the sheep? Could their
ancient acquaintance be forgotten in a few little
centuries of exile in cities? Had they not been
out—through the long course of the ages—under
the same stars, felt the same winds, endured the
same dangers? In the first dawn of civilization,
dim and far away through the mists of the past,
the herdsman cared for his sheep in the green
pastures,—and it was in the blood.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sometimes this old acquaintance was recalled
to Hugh in dreams. There was one dream in
particular that came to him night after night.
It never seemed to vary, and its spell always endured
a few moments after wakening. So real
it was, so vivid, it was almost as if it had been
some actual experience in his own life, rather
than a remembered vista from the immeasurable
past. He always seemed to be sitting, half-dozing,
before a fire,—a fire not greatly different
from that which burned before him in reality.
It was always so red, so cheering, that the love
of it seemed to shiver his heart to pieces. The
forest always stretched about him, silent, mysterious,
sinister past all words. And there were
always the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Always, in his dream, he guarded the sheep.
It was a matter of life itself. And Death was
always waiting for him the instant he relaxed
his vigilance. It was not an easy passing, a swift
crossing to a happy, bright, quiet land from
which he might return and whisper in the night.
It was always darkness and cold and pain, and
most of all it was fear. The sheep were white
in the same moon, the same stars were in the
sky. But the tent was absent. Such a thing was
without his bourn of thought. In the darkness
he dared not leave the fire to seek shelter from
the rain. And as he dozed he sat in a somewhat
different position,—usually leaning forward, his
hands locked behind his head. And in the summer
nights the hair on his arms drained off the
rain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Shep was still beside him, and the communion
between them was even more close than in life.
They seemed almost like brothers, rather than
master and servant. A peace that was almost
rapture abided in their companionship. And it
was necessary that Shep remain awake while he
himself dozed. But the dog’s outline was
vaguely different. The ears were always
pointed and erect, the tail was not so lifted, and
sometimes when Hugh caught a sudden glimpse
of him out of the corner of his eye, a swift wave
of icy terror swept over him. The dog was like
Cry-in-the-night,—that was it! He was gray
and white-fanged just like the wolves themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Even the wind—the air—was different. It
was full of smells that stirred the flesh, and
hushed little sounds to freeze the blood with
dread. It was vibrant and shuddering and alive,
and the world had not yet begun to grow old.
And he always felt an overwhelming pride in
his own strength. His arms—curiously long and
quite black with hair—could crush the ribs of
Cry-in-the-night like an eggshell. His chest was
huge, his legs were knotted and gigantic, and
when he saw his reflection in the water of the
spring, the hairy growth was long and matted
about his throat. And clearest of all the dream
was the ring of deadly shadows that ever encroached
upon the space of firelight, and the
strange twin lights that ever glowed from their
depths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Two and two, everywhere he looked. They
always glowed hungrily, and their watch was
never done. Curious blue-green and yellow
disks of fire, close together and glowing ever in
the darkness. Sometimes he would open his lips
and shout,—and for an instant they would draw
back. They were afraid of that wild cry of his,
but they were more afraid of the flint dagger
that lay at his side. Ah, they died quickly—with
a scream and a howl—when the Death
Flint went into them. It was a good thing to
see, but it also filled the heart with fear. He
laughed and exulted when he remembered how it
was even quicker in its stroke than the leap of a
wolf.—But most of all the watchful circle feared
the camp fire. They could not rub the wood and
strike the flame: in this he was master, ruler and
monarch of the earth! Cry-in-the-night might
kill him in a fair fight, but still he could not build
a fire. The dreamer always felt a great wave of
exultation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One night he dreamed that the fire burned almost
down, and the circle drew close. He
wakened from his doze and shouted at them none
too soon. And a strange, wild cry from his own
lips wakened Hugh, in the sheep camp of the
twentieth century, from his dream. He had
cried out in his sleep,—a hoarse, wild, savage cry
that left him curiously awed. And the coyote
that had crept close to the flank of the flock
slipped quickly back into the forest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh got up, stood a moment in the gleam of
the late September moon, then piled more wood
upon the fire. The circle of twin lights was a
reality to-night. The days of drought had
brought ever more of the wild hunters about his
flock, and almost anywhere he looked he saw
their luminous eyes, two by two, as they waited
in the darkness. He glanced down—but a rifle,
not a dagger of flint, lay at his side. He looked
out over the flock, instinctively counting up his
markers. Most of the sheep were asleep, but one—the
greatest of them all—stood erect, with lowered
horns, as if on guard. It was Spot the yearling
ram, and his horns looked oddly large in
the soft light of the moon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Spot, old boy,” the man said, “I believe
you’ve got memories too. I believe you’ve been
dreaming—just as I have.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XX</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Dreams, dreams! Spot, the young ram, waking
or sleeping, never escaped from them. They
came to him through the long, still hours of
night, they disturbed his sleep in the mid-afternoon
rest when the flock sought the deep shade,
he knew them even in the hours of grazing. They
were so plain, so real that they seemed more like
memories,—events that had transpired before he
came to lead Crowson’s flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet his damming was not the least in doubt.
Crowson himself knew Spot’s full record as far
as his own immediate life was concerned. He
had been born in the lower foothills,—the first
lamb of the season. And his mother had died to
give him birth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Such casualties do not happen often among
the domestic sheep. There were a few such losses
each year, usually due to an unnatural delivery,
but in this case there was a simpler explanation.
Little Spot was oversized; in a remote
way that Crowson could not quite identify, he
differed in outline from any other lamb in the
flock. The same divergence could still be noticed
now as Spot reached his second autumn.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good Lord,” Crowson had said, when he
marked the lamb’s coloring and size. “Here’s a
little devil that would be worth watching if his
ewe were just alive to keep him fed. I’d like to
see just what kind of a ram he’d grow to be.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He supposed that Spot would die; a motherless
lamb in western flocks can’t be counted on
to survive. But in this case Spot obviously had
other plans. Before the end of his first day he
had attached himself—with an instinct that was
seemingly miraculous—to the largest, strongest
ewe in the flock, one whose own lamb had died.
Crowson himself fastened the skin of the dead
lamb on his back until the ewe gave him her
breast.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was as if he already knew his destiny and
needed full-feeding and rich milk to attain it.
Spot grew fast. And in the castration and docking
season little Spot was spared,—just to see
what kind of a white-rumped, miscolored, heavy-headed
ram he would grow to be.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And almost from the first day he had had those
strange, haunting dreams. Mostly they were
thrilling, breath-taking, joyous dreams, but
sometimes they were simply nightmares. The
earliest one of all, perhaps, concerned some
sort of a terrible enemy that always
seemed to be menacing him from above.
It was something that could drop with the
speed of a waterfall leaping down a cliff, or
the morning light chasing the shadows down a
snow-capped peak as the sun came up. Spot
knew that it had cruel talons that could lift him
in the air and carry him to a fearful land of
cold and darkness whence he would never return.
The sheep do not ordinarily watch the skies—the
range of their eyes is downward—and thus the
only way to mark Swift Wing’s approach was to
see his shadow on the crags. And once when the
shadow of a lazy buzzard flicked across the
meadow—a sight unnoticed by the other lambs—Spot’s
little heart choked with terror, and he
tried to squirm under the ewe’s body.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Cliffs, waterfalls, snow-capped peaks! What
did little Spot know of them? He was born on
the lower foothills, and from the highest camp
where Hugh drove the flock the peaks were still
far aloft, glittering in the sun. Yet Spot knew
them. In his dreams he knew exactly how the
waters broke, gleamed, and roared as they
dropped from ledge to ledge; he knew the feel of
the firm snow under his hoofs, the glory of the
sun from the topmost spire of the highest peak,
the touch of the cold crags as he lay in the sun.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His dreams were ever so much more real to
him than his realities: the band of patient ewes,
the firelight of the herder, the slow grazing over
the wide stretches of green grass. In fact, Spot
put no trust in camp fires and herders. The
herder, he felt in the depths of his heart, should
be eyed with suspicion. This strange, forked
breed was no companion of his. He couldn’t get
away from a feeling of strangeness and unfamiliarity
with the scenes of his birth, as if he had
wandered away from home and didn’t know the
way back. He was lost and lonesome and unhappy,
and he had been cheated from some glorious
heritage that was rightly his.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He couldn’t get used to the slow movements
of the ewes and the other lambs. His muscles
seemed to itch and burn when he was idle. He
wanted to run, to dash up the rocky cliffs; and
yet he dared not leave the flock. The gregarious
instinct among sheep is too well ingenerated for
that. Once weaned, he spent his surplus energies
in running back and forth across the front of the
band, ever longing for the lost land from which
he had strayed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In his dreams he always left the meadows far
behind him. Even the forest itself was left too,
and he was set free and joyful in a more familiar
land: a place of jagged cliffs and sliderock, narrow
passes and steep precipices, great rock crevices
and snow-capped peaks. It was true that
some of his band accompanied him. But they
were all taller, all stronger, all active as himself.
And a great blood-brother—whose word was
immutable law in the pass—was always in the
lead. It seemed, dim and deeply hidden from
him, that he himself was ordained—when his full
strength was upon him—to lead that band in
their wild adventures over the cliffs and stretch
his own irrevocable law over the ranges. But
that was far off. In his dreams he was merely
one of the dark-colored band, marked with white
even as himself; and the leader had tremendous,
curling horns of which even Lurk-in-the-trail,
the cougar, could rightly be afraid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Such games they had in his dreams, such
breath-taking adventures and wild leapings from
crevice to crevice, from ledge to ledge. Sometimes
it seemed to him that he would climb and
climb, as a star climbs in the sky, to the loftiest
pinnacle of the highest peak from which the whole
mountain world would spread in glory below
him, and the setting sun would throw its red
glow over him. The longing for his lost land was
with him every waking moment. He loved his
dreams: his reality seemed absent of all delight.
He was always sorry to waken. Deep, insatiable
longings and vague unhappiness filled his days.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a perfectly natural development that in
his second year—even although he had not yet
reached full maturity—he should obtain the leadership
of the flock. The other sheep sensed his
self-reliance even though they could not share
in it, and even the old ewes followed him with
entire simplicity and trust. He seemed to have
had the advantage of some stern sort of an education
that they did not have, and almost unaided
by the herder he led them to the choicest feeding
grounds. He was brave when they were afraid;
he sensed danger when they were blind and deaf;
and most of all he had the spirit of kings. But
they could not follow where he would have liked
to lead them. And because of the eternal instinct
toward gregariousness, he had to stay back
with them. It would have been easy for him to
whip past the dog, gaining quickly the high
passes where such beasts as Cry-in-the-night
could scarcely follow. But the others could not
keep pace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dreams were always real and lifelike, but
one night in late September they swept him with
unutterable vividness. The flock had bedded
down at the highest camp in the range: Crowson’s
holdings ended in the fringe of timber immediately
above them. And all at once he
leaped straight out of his dream into wakefulness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was trembling all over with excitement;
his blood simply racing in his veins. The night
throbbed, his heart swelled as if it would burst.
At first he only saw the moonlight, fragile and
silvery, over the sleeping sheep. He raised his
head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One of the wilderness traits that even the domestic
sheep have not altogether lost is the ability
to stand absolutely motionless until human eyes
get tired of watching. Not a hair twitched on
the young ram. It was such a posture as his followers
had often seen in him when the flock was
menaced by some approaching beast of prey; yet
Spot was not thinking of enemies now. And all
at once a wild flood of ecstasy passed through
his frame.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Out of the darkness of the ridge certain living
forms came stealing one by one, as silently as
stealing shadows. A wonderful and noble monarch—to
whom even the wolf made obeisance—was
first in the file,—just as Spot had known.
Others, even smaller than himself, brought up
the rear. And then Spot knew the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He knew that his dream was coming true.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>All the dreams by which Spot knew of his
lost heritage were realities to old Argali, leader
of a band of wild mountain sheep, or bighorn,
that had their craggy home in the high ranges of
the Upper Salmon Mountains. The winged
danger that fell from the clouds to menace the
young lambs was not a memory to him: it was
just an unavoidable detail of his life. Perhaps
it was more familiar to the ewes, whose lambs
were the lights of their souls, but old Argali had
become rather indifferent to it years before. For
the winged death was simply the great golden
eagle who had his eyrie on a high ledge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had known in his own life the joys that
Spot had dreamed about and missed: the wild
runs, the leaping from ledge to ledge, the rough
games, the glory of the sunset on the high peaks.
In his own time he had stood on the high pinnacles
and let the last red glow of the sun fall
over him. He had known the strife, the danger,
the exultation, and his flock would follow him
wherever he chose to go.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no more magnificent creature in the
whole mountain world than he. To Hugh, who
had never seen a mountain sheep, his coloring
would have recalled but one creature on earth,—Spot
himself. He had massive horns that could
strike with resistless might, sturdy legs and little
clinging hoofs that could scale the face of a precipice.
A lone wolf wouldn’t have cared to meet
old Argali on a narrow trail. Only Broken
Fang himself had prowess enough to conquer
him in a fair fight,—and Broken Fang usually
hunted in the woods far, far below Argali’s
range.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the bighorn ram had memories also; and
it was because of them that he took the narrow
trail down into the valleys this mid-September
night. The wind—a soft little breath that had
stolen up from the hills where the flock fled—had
brought him a message; and it carried him back
to an autumn night of two seasons before, recalling
certain stirring events that had occurred
upon a distant mountain side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was wholly possible that Bill Elkins, a
herder who the following spring had gone over
to Fargo and his gang, could remember that
night also. But he had no real knowledge of the
strange mountain drama that had taken place.
His only recollection of it concerned a long and
weary climb after a little band of strays that had
wandered from the main band of domestic sheep
and which a wolf had chased far into the distant
mountains.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He did not know of the dramatic meeting that
had taken place on a far-away crag that was the
lower limit of Argali’s range. It was the last
days of the rut,—the season that was just now
beginning. The old ram had been down from
his high places looking for salt, and at first he
had been just a little alarmed by the sight of the
little band of all-white ewes fleeing so madly
toward him. But understanding had come soon.
He realized that these ewes were his own people,—cousins
far remote and yet females of his
own breed. They were sheep, even as he himself.
Their wool was full of alien smells, they were
awkward and slow and helpless, their bodies were
fat where they should have been trim, yet they
were his own kind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fact that he had considerable of a harem
already did not matter here: for the old ram—like
all of his brethren—was an incorrigible
polygamist. Were not the fall days almost done?
It was the autumnal madness, and a wilderness
mating had come to pass before the moon had
set.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And Spot had been the child of that union,—conceived
in the far ranges that were his native
land. But the strong ewe that was his mother
did not follow her lord into his high trails, after
all. Bill Elkins had come, Argali and his band
had fled, and by driving the runaway sheep back
to the flock the little bighorn—born the following
spring—was to be cheated of his heritage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All these memories swept the old flock leader
as he came stealing through the forest shadows
in response to that stirring message in the wind.
He came out into the moonlit meadow; he lifted
high his magnificent horns. And the wilderness
gods—kind at last to this man of cities who had
given his heart to the wilderness—wakened
Hugh in time to behold the sight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was such a scene that the memory ever
cherishes, a mystery and a delight through all of
life. In all that breadth of forest there was no
picture more wonderful, no forest drama that
went more deeply into the mysteries of the wild.
He felt as if the mountains had opened their secret
heart to him at last. He scarcely moved in
his blankets lest the charm should break.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He didn’t know why he was so awed. It was
as if the centuries had rolled back and had given
him a glimpse of the young world,—when the
holy communion of men and nature still endured.
He sensed the immutable enforcement of great
laws,—perhaps one instant’s half-darkened
glimpse of the whole, unfathomable scheme of
existence. And he was moved to the depths of
his being by the sheer beauty and wonder of the
scene.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The moonlight was a miracle in itself. It enchanted
the meadows, it filled the open forest
with gliding ghosts, it turned to snow the great,
sleeping flock. The brush thickets were a mystery,
a darkness that passed understanding.
And at the edge of the forest stood the bighorns,
forms in marble, noble past all words.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet it could endure but a moment more.
Even now the great ram had begun to grow suspicious.
The firelight cast a faint red glamor,
and Argali eyed it with suspicion. There were
unfamiliar smells in the air too: one that remotely
suggested Cry-in-the-night and the other
that he had experienced when Bill Elkins had
come to drive back his ewes. He turned silently,
starting to slip away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at that instant Spot—the yearling ram
that had led the domestic flock—leaped forward
as a meteor leaps in the sky. He knew this breed
that had come down from the fastnesses. They
were of his lost land, and even now they were
turning back to the crags of which he had
dreamed. Hugh saw the motion, gasped once
in the depths of wonder, and sprang to his feet.
The dog barked and raced about the flank of the
flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh cried out. Swept with wonder and tingling
in every nerve, he couldn’t suppress the utterance.
He saw old Argali pause with lowered
horns as Spot raced toward him. His little flock
stood statuesque for a single instant, as if they
were waiting for him to join them. These were
Spot’s people: in the moonlight there was no
difference between them and the other bighorn
yearlings. Hugh understood now why Spot had
differed from the domestic sheep. And Shep
raced—jealous as ever for the integrity of the
flock—to cut off Spot’s flight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And for the first time in his career with the
sheep Hugh broke his trust. His business, too,
was to keep the flock together, to help the dog
round up the truants and the strays. Yet the
promptings of his own spirit bade otherwise.
He had repatriated himself, he had come to his
lost land, and was such a right to be denied the
bighorn that had led the flock? Spot’s place was
in the rough crags and the high trails, snow sweep
and precipice and the ruddy glow of sunset, not
feeding with the domestic sheep. He knew that
Alice would understand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come back, Shep,” he called into the stillness.
The dog turned, hesitated, then, faithful
servant that he was, came trotting back. Spot
overtook the flock and the forest closed behind
him. The bighorn ram had come into his heritage.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>José Mertos, when he came at Fargo’s bidding,
looked exactly the same as always. He
seemed to have partaken of the changeless quality
of the desert where he was born. His lips
were thin, his face impassive, his dark eyes somber
as ever. Fargo himself, however, had undergone
certain transformations. He was not quite so
boastful as usual, nor so arrogant. He looked
as if some especially effective medicine had been
administered to him. It was plain, however, that
the dose had not been entirely to his liking.
There were little angry glowings in his eyes that
seemed never entirely to fade out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Anger had always come quickly to Fargo, but
it isn’t good for the spirit to have it remain indefinitely.
It cuts deep lines in the face and fills
the eyeballs with ugly little blood vessels, and it
makes the hands shake and the heart burn. It
also swells the little sacks under the eyes, a thing
that is never pleasant to see. It was plain that
certain events had recently occurred that Fargo
had not yet forgotten, but which had incited a
strange hunger within himself that must be
satiated with something quite different from
bread. And as the days glided past the more
fierce the hunger became.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was true that he remembered only Hugh’s
first blow,—that which had stretched him flat
upon his back. The feel of the earth throughout
one’s length has a tremendous medicinal value
in itself to some men, and in others it wakens a
madness that is considerably worse than that
which comes upon Broken Fang at the fall of
darkness. And there had been at least two other
blows when he was stretched out unconscious.
One of them had temporarily closed his eye.
The other had left a purple bruise about his lips.
This was enough in itself. Men did not strike
Landy Fargo down and have many months to
boast of it. At least that was what he told himself
time after time, in the long nights that he
sat alone. The meeting with Hugh in which his
horse had been returned to him had been scarcely
less odious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo remembered how Hugh—with his
bleeding arm—had motioned for him to go, and
how at the same time his hard, bright eyes had
been watching for any offensive motion on the
part of Fargo. But courage to attack simply
would not come to him. And in the morning
light, burning with hatred and passion, he had
ridden back to his home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The affair in regard to the flocks was no longer
merely a business proposition. It had its personal
side now. It seemed to him that its completion
was the only desire he had left. He hated
the browsing sheep, he hated Crowson and Crowson’s
daughter, but most of all he hated Hugh.
There was the man who had defeated all his
plans. It was Hugh’s fists that had knocked
him to the earth and that had lashed into his face
as he lay unconscious. Night after night, week
after week, he had sat—savage as one of his own
hounds—staring into the fire. The flames had
leaped: and he knew that some time in their lurid
glow they would show him his course of action.
His only wish was to make payment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The time in which he might strike was almost
up. October—when the detachment of forest
rangers would take over the district and protect
such lawful industries as Crowson’s—was almost
at hand. The thought seemed to drive him insane.
And one night, when September was almost
done, inspiration came to him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A cowman had come in, complaining of the
drought. The streams where his cattle fed were
drying up. “Never seen the woods so dry in all
my days,” the man had said. “Just like tinder.
And already most of the cattle have crossed over
Eagle Ridge into the Bear Canyon country.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was enough. He had given Fargo his hint.
Certain orders had been dispatched: to drive all
the remaining herds into the same region,—a district
far from Crowson’s range in Smoky Land.
And then he had sent for José.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Mexican was the one man on whom Fargo
felt he might rely. José had no ridiculous limits
as to conduct, no notch of brutality and crime
above which he would not go. The cowboys who
worked for him, however, weren’t of the same
metal. They were faithful enough in a good
open-and-shut fight, fair warfare between the
cattlemen and sheepmen. They were willing to
take any decent risk, and their rancor against the
“woollies” was bitter enough for general purposes.
Partly it was a matter of mob psychology,
partly because they thought their own jobs
and prospects depended upon the range being
kept open for the cattle herds. But these cowmen
were rather inclined to play too fair; and
cold and premeditated murder was not, among
them, being done. The deadly desert man, however,
had no such compunctions. He had been
the logical man to send for after that last talk
with Dan the herder. And he was the logical
man now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fargo had already drawn his maps. In his
own broken handwriting he indicated the various
ranges and the larger streams that flowed between
them. Fargo knew the passes of Smoky
Land. And the two men went over them with
singular care as to detail, with infinite patience
such as they had never given to any of their lesser
projects. They discussed the directions of the
prevailing winds, the “lay” of the canyons, even
the location of the most impassable thickets. It
took the whole night and many glasses of burning
liquor to perfect their plans.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It must start, you see, in the Bear Canyon
country,” Fargo said at last. “And nothing in
the world that I see—considering how long it will
take to send word—can stop it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>José agreed. “Just you and I do the work?”
he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. The others can’t be trusted. But remember—I’m
paying you the limit—a whole
year’s pay for a night’s work. A thousand dollars—don’t
forget.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>José’s eyes showed that he had not forgotten.
“It’ll take fast horses,” he said. “We don’t
want to get caught ourselves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No danger of that; but there’ll be plenty of
riding to do, as you say. It’s a straight-out
course—and to-morrow night we go.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>To-morrow night! To Hugh and Alice, in
the distant sheep camp, it meant almost the end
of Fargo’s menace. Another day and another
night thereafter, and September would be gone:
the forest rangers would come riding into Smoky
Land to establish their headquarters. The days
of lawlessness would be over. And the man and
the girl were exultant as two children as the fire’s
glow spread its glamor over them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re going to win, Hugh,” she told him.
“They’ve had weeks to strike, and they haven’t
struck, and I think we’re safe. And it means so
much.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Hugh shook his head. “It’s true that
they haven’t struck,” he agreed, “and yet I can’t
believe we’re safe. You didn’t see Fargo’s face
as he turned to go that night. I don’t think he
could forget. But if they just hold off a few
days more——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>If he had owned the flocks himself, Hugh
couldn’t have been happier at the thoughts of
victory. There had been nothing easy or soft
about the project of the sheep. He had given
his own nerve and sinew, he had fought a tireless
battle, and nothing in his life had ever mattered
so much. It was the first real test and undertaking
of his manhood: besides, it was all for Alice.
Victory was at hand; and surely fate would not
cheat them now. They had already started the
flocks downward, following one of the tributaries
of Silver Creek where there was still enough
water for the flock. Early in October he would
take them to a certain well-watered pasture on
the lower slopes. In the meantime the rangers
would come to his aid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly he reached out and took her little,
hard, brown hand in his. It yielded to his palm,
and just for an instant he touched it to his cheek.
Yet he didn’t look into her eyes. He was fearful—to
the depths of his being—of the expression
that might be read in them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Alice, it’s been a good fight,” he said simply.
“And ever since the world began—when a good
fight has been fought—it’s the soldier’s right to
make certain requests—that he never had the
right or the courage to make before.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She nodded, and slowly he released her hand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No matter if he’s just a humble peasant,”
the man went on, “if he’s given all that he has to
give, he has a right to make those requests. And
although the queen laughs in scorn, at least she
can’t resent them—or order him beheaded.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think she could be scornful—if the
peasant has given—everything he has.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think it would be quite fair either—although,
of course, he might ask for things that
she couldn’t grant. And that, perhaps, will be
the way it is with me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She looked up, a strange mist and glory in her
eyes. “What do you mean, Hugh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He heard the crackle of the fire, the stir of the
wind behind her, the soft complaint of the sheep,
stirring in their sleep, but most of all he discerned
the music, the unutterable loveliness in
her tones. “I mean that when this fight is won—I’m
going to put my petitions to the queen.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXIII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>In the still midday, desperate and half-mad
with hunger, Broken Fang, the cougar, came
stealing along a narrow pass in the high ranges
of Smoky Land. He hadn’t had a great deal of
success with the mountain creatures. The previous
day he had caught a little pika on the sliderock;
once a mountain grouse had failed to detect
him lying like a tawny piece of crag beside a
pass, but the great bighorn themselves had
mostly been able to keep out of his way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the first place he was under the great disadvantage
of fighting in the enemy’s country.
The cougars are never quite at home in the high
mountains. They are essentially a lowland people,
and they have no love for the fields of glittering
snow. They need trees in which to hide,
brush thickets to wait in till the deer graze near
by. The narrow passes, the rugged precipices,
and the high knife-edge trails were the natural
habitats of the wild sheep, but Broken Fang
liked better walking. Besides, he didn’t know
the country.</p>

<p class='pindent'>If any one supposes that animals do not have
to learn the geographical nature of a hunting
ground before they are really adept in it, it is
wholly plain that he has never followed the
tracks of a pack of strange wolves in a new land.
By knowing all the trails, the bighorn were able
to avoid the traps that Broken Fang so laboriously
set. More than once, after a weary half-day’s
wait, he would find to his chagrin that the
sure-footed sheep had been watching him—chuckling
no doubt among themselves—from a
nearby promontory. They knew how to see him
before he saw them, and in a fair chase he was
simply out of the running. If his luck didn’t
change soon, it seemed very likely that the buzzards
would have a large heap of poorly upholstered
bones to pick clean.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But to-night—as September days rolled to
their mellow end—he had fresh hopes. For the
wind had come and brought him good news.
The flock was feeding on a little grass slope just
in front.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang felt that it was almost his last
chance, and he intended to make the most of it.
But desperate as he was, he kept his hunting cunning.
This would indicate that certain of the
beasts have even better nerve control than their
superiors, human beings,—for a starving man
would have been unlikely to go about his hunting
with the same stealth and caution. He crept
slowly forward, his nerves singing wild melodies
within him. And stealing from above, he soon
caught sight of the flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Some of them were feeding; Argali, Spot, and
one or two of the other young rams were lying
down. Broken Fang’s glaring eyes encompassed
the whole scene, and with the swiftness
and accuracy of a general, he mapped out his
plan of attack. No naturalist explains by what
swift avenues of intelligence he made his plans.
Animals cannot reason. Instinct alone is severely
taxed to account for all the wiles and astuteness
of the wild creatures. But if this were
instinct, it served him even better than intelligence.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was true that his prey was out of leaping
range of his trail. Yet for all that his heart
throbbed with rapture. A jagged cliff approached
within a few feet of them from the opposite
side, and one détour would bring him close
enough to strike. Best of all, he could leap at
them from above.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The wind was right, the animals were not suspecting
danger. He crept slowly about to the
shelter of the opposite pass, then began to creep
stealthily toward the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He didn’t see how he could miss, particularly
the yearling ram that lay nearest the cliff. He
was a newcomer in the band, and he wouldn’t be
so wary as the others. It was a simple matter
of stealing quietly over a ledge of rock, where
there were no dry twigs to break beneath his feet,
then to spring down with outstretched talons and
open jaws. Already he was within a hundred
feet. Their pungent smell was a madness in his
nerves. Nearer—ever nearer—and now they
were just below him. He had sunk so low
against the crag that he looked more like a great
tawny serpent than a feline. His tail twitched
at its very tip as he crept on,—a few feet more.
The whole realm was hung with that tense silence
of the high mountains, a stillness wherein not
even a wind whispers and the heart pounds like a
drum in the breast.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This was not a coyote to be frightened away
by an attitude of defense. If once the great
puma launched forth in his spring, no power on
earth could save the young ram. It seemed as if
Spot were to lose his heritage already.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang knew this crag. He had made
a kill of one of its little people a day or two before.
He had always had only scorn for these
lesser folk,—the scurrying gophers, the timid
rabbits, and the furry pikas in the rocks. Yet at
that instant he was to receive a taste of their
might. A shrill shriek suddenly split open the
silence,—just in front of his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After all it was only a miniature sound, really
little more than a high-pitched squeak. Yet in
that unfathomable silence it cracked like a rifle.
In one second of thought Broken Fang would
have identified the sound, would have kept his
poise, and a moment later would have sprung
with fatal power into the flock of sheep. Yet
that second of thought did not come in time.
The impulse to his muscles, the sudden explosion
of his tightly drawn nerves had the speed of light
itself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was only a little pika—a rock rabbit, as the
mountaineers call them,—such as the puma had
killed the day before. It would have been surpassing
poetic justice for it to have been the
mate of the small, gray creature that had died so
recently in his talons, squealing for the mother
of his litter to come back to him. And his sharp
squeal was just enough, and no more, to put high
explosives under the sheep hunt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The cougar’s nerves had been pitched to the
highest key, and the muscular reaction to that
shrill sound could not be restrained. His paw
lashed out: the little rodent leaped from beneath
it. And at the same instant he snarled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Few living creatures can strike in silence.
One of them is the mighty elephant, most intellectual
and, of course, majestic of all the beasts.
This jungle king can lunge out with a resistless
force and still keep the tremendous silence of the
sphinx. But the stallion screams when he strikes
with his lashing hoofs. The elk bellows, and
even the venerable, dignified old bear has a savage
growl at his lips as he slashes his terrible
paws at his foe. The pent-up passions do not
find sufficient escape in the blow itself, and a
vocal utterance usually accompanies it. As
Broken Fang struck at the rodent, his short, terrible
snarl rang through the still air.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sheep needed no further warning. They
sprang forward as if the sound had been a great
hand that hurled them, without an instant’s delay.
Broken Fang caught himself then, snarled
and sprang among them; but he was a mere fraction
of an instant too late.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The flock was divided—Argali and some of
the ewes and immature rams circled about and
dashed up the rocks at one side. The others—Spot
and two young ewes—were cut off from
this avenue of escape, and headed down the
steep wall of the mountain. The way of the
bighorn is the climbing trail—to flee to the
heights where the ordinary run of hunters cannot
follow. But Spot was obliged to take another
course.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang leaped after him. At first he
ran only in anger and frenzy, for his instincts
told him plainly and surely that it is usually the
height of folly for a cougar to attempt to overtake
the hoofed creatures in an open chase. But
he had been cheated too many times; and his self-control
had fallen further from him than the bottom
of the gorge. The sheep raced on lightly,
easily, and Broken Fang filled the canyons with
his snarls.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But in a moment of vain pursuit a certain
knowledge came to him. These sheep were
headed down into his own country,—into the
land of forest and thicket where he could hunt to
an advantage. The thing to do was to continue
the chase, prevent them from circling back, and
who knows what glory might be his in the still,
tree-clad ridges below him.</p>

<hr class='tbk104'/>

<p class='pindent'>The chase of Spot and his bighorn ewes down
into the greenwood was not the only stir of life
in the midday silence of Smoky Land. At the
same hour the hoofbeats of a running horse carried
far through the dusky thickets of a certain
great ridge to the east,—a place that divided
Crowson’s range from the old Bear Canyon
country. A man rode lightly in the saddle: and
his dark skin revealed him as an alien in this
northern land. José Mertos was riding on orders,
and he came swiftly. There was work for
him to-day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He seemed to know just what to do. From
time to time he scanned the horizon as if searching
for a landmark. Then he turned off the
trail through the heavy timber. The forest constantly
grew more brushy, his advance ever more
difficult. And at last he came to the mouth of a
great, still canyon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Very swiftly he went to work. And if it had
not been for the curious intentness of his eyes, an
unexplainable nervousness in his motions, one
would have thought that he was merely making
a camp. He collected a little pile of dry bark
and pushed a few brown pine needles under it.
Then he broke off some of the brittle branches of
the underbrush. These were piled on too; and
a match flashed in his hand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just a moment he stood, waiting until the
flame—a yellow hungry little tongue that a slap
of the hand could extinguish—crept like a serpent
into the little heap of dead bark. He saw it
grow and climb till, with a sudden leap, it sprang
into the dry branches that he had broken off.
And from there it was only one leap to the brittle
brush of the shrubbery of the thicket.</p>

<p class='pindent'>José smiled then, a little, dim curling of his
thin lips over his gleaming teeth. And he did
not smile often. An event had to be very cruel
and hurt some one very badly to waken mirth in
him. And now there was no answering echo of
simple pleasure in his dark eyes. Rather the fire
that he had ignited had crept into them also: the
pupils were oddly contracted and bright as
points of steel. He seemed somewhat breathless,
too, stirred to the depths with a madness
unknown even to the wild creatures.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There is no more wholesome emotion on earth
than the love for the open fire. It was the first
friend, and its comradeship and protection are remembered
from the immeasurable past. And
there is no madness that is so devastating and
terrible as that of incendiarism. José was not,
ordinarily, a man given to excesses. But the fire
madness was upon him now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A fiendish light was in his eyes, a ghastly
drawing distorted his features. His motions
were less careful and patient. He laughed
harshly, then swung on to his horse. He headed
up the canyon, swooped off his horse’s back, and
lighted another fire. The crackle of the first
conflagration had already grown to a menacing
roar behind him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A quarter of a mile farther he lighted the third
fire, and then the fourth. It was not to be just a
sporadic brush fire, with open lanes between. It
was to be a veritable wall of flame. It was the
forest fire in its full sense, sweeping swiftly and
immutably over hill and valley, through thicket
and open forest, and leaving only ugly sticks and
black ashes in its wake. The flame pounced
upon the trees. The dusky branches caught,
the red demon mounted higher, and already the
spaces between his first few starting fires were
closing up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But still José did not cease. For five miles
across the canyons he rode—in a great crescent—stopping
ever to light his fires. And when that
ride was done, he turned his mount back through
Smoky Land, toward a certain canyon that was
a gateway out of the region to high mountains
where the fire could not go. He had other work
to do.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXIV</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>The sheep were taking their midday rest, and
Hugh and Alice exchanged certain confidences
as they kept watch over them, sitting side by side
on a dead log. Always, it seemed to them, they
had more to tell each other than time would possibly
permit. There was only one thing, it
seemed to Hugh, that they didn’t talk of: his real
station in life before he came to Smoky Land.
He had never told her of his wealth, of the Old
Colonel sitting in the club. For once in his life
his credentials were his own manhood and his
own personality, and he wanted no others. It
was the test, and no irrelevant matters must enter
in.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And all at once he paused in the middle of a
sentence, staring curiously at the ground. The
shadow of their figures in the sunlight was no
longer to be seen.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good Lord, Alice,” he exclaimed. “What’s
happened to the sun?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They both looked up at once. And they found
it without difficulty. But it was not that potent
orb that the long summer days had taught them
to respect. It was a feeble sun, a mere red disk
in the strange, gray-blue sky.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Clouds?” Hugh asked. A queer little stir
went over his body. It was as if instinct—not
yet dead but only blunted in human beings—had
spoken within his being, giving him knowledge
that his conscious self had not yet grasped. He
was angry with himself for the tone. He had
tried to keep all urgency out of it, and yet it
seemed so breathless, so charged with dread.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” the girl answered clearly. “It’s
smoke.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were silent a breath. Both of them were
testing the direction of the wind. Both of them
knew at the same instant that their whole world
depended largely upon this. It was not blowing
hard at present, yet there was wind enough to
sweep the fire through the tree-tops. And, more
than anything, they remembered the parched
and inflammable condition of the woods and
brush.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Both of them discovered the truth the same instant.
“We’re right in its track,” Hugh said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They waited a long time, hardly speaking.
The sky slowly thickened with smoke. They saw
it rising, in great billowing clouds, toward Bear
Canyon. Listening closely, they heard—at the
vague frontier of hearing—the distant crackle of
the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All doubt was past. The time for delay was
spent. That age-old terror of the wilderness,
the forest fire, was sweeping toward them. It
was yet distant and they had no inkling of its
true origin. And as they listened, the first of
the vanguard of fleeing wild creatures—a full-grown
buck with magnificent horns and soft eyes—swept
past them at top speed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You see, Hugh, don’t you?” she said rather
quietly. “The whole valley seems to be afire,
and we’ve got to run before it. There’s no way
to hold it off——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But won’t the rangers see the smoke and
come?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They couldn’t come in time. Besides, the
high range hides it from the settlements. Unless
a gale starts up—or accidents happen—we can
drive the sheep out before it. As yet there’s
no need to leave the sheep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course not,” Hugh agreed. “We can’t
leave the sheep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl looked up, a wonderful luster in her
dark eyes. She was a mountain girl, inured to
the terror of the flaming forest, and it was natural
that she should retain perfect self-control.
But she found herself wondering at this tenderfoot,
this man of cities. There is no greater test
of the spirit than that slow, remorseless advance
of the wall of flame. The sight calls forth
dreadful memories from the labyrinthal depths
of the germ plasm; it chokes up the heart with
cold blood and distills a poison in the nerves, yet
he seemed as free from panic as she herself.
And he was also the eternal shepherd. He
would not leave the sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We pass the camp on the walk and I’ll get
the horses,” she explained quickly. “It will be
hard to control the flock if the fire gets much
nearer. And I’ll try to take time to snatch a
little food to keep us going through the night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And your father’s lease—it’s all lost?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. The grass will come up after the winter
rains. If it were just a top fire the underbrush
would be even heavier.” She turned to the
shepherd dog, who now stood gazing, as if entranced,
toward the billowing wall of smoke behind
them. “Get ’em up, Shep, old boy.
We’ve got to start.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog obeyed; they began to drive the flocks
in the direction of the foothills. It was hard
work for all three to control them. In the first
place they missed the guidance of Spot,—gone
some days before to join his people. Besides,
they were all uneasy and at the very verge of
panic from the increasing sound of the fire behind
them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They reached the camp, and Alice left her
place to secure the horses. One of them, her
own riding bay, came quickly to her hand, but
the pack horses were not to be seen. The only
explanation was that while her own animal, true
to his trust, had remained for his rider to come,
the others—terrorized by the fire—had fled in
the direction of the foothills. They were hobbled,
surely, but by striking down with both fore
feet at once, horses learn to make good time even
with hobbles. It was not a great disaster, yet it
cut down—to an appreciable degree—their
chances of saving the flock. It was more
difficult for them to keep the flock closely
bunched. And both of them knew, and neither
of them spoke of it, that in case of the “accidents”
that all mountaineers learn—some time
in their lives—to expect, it hurt their own
chances of getting out alive. Because it impeded
his ease of motion, Hugh left his rifle in
camp, depending on the pistol at his belt for any
emergencies that might arise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The long afternoon drew to twilight. The
fire slowly gained. It came with a rush up the
ridges, a veritable charge that drove the wild
beasts before it, but it crept like a snail as it
descended. The crackle was no longer just a
whisper in the air to be drowned out by the
slightest sound. It had swollen until it filled the
forest, and it had begun to have a strange, roaring
quality that fire fighters learn to dread. It
meant but one thing: an all-consuming forest
and brush fire in which great sheets of flame
spring from tree to tree, wherein no living thing
may survive. Already a pronounced heat was
in the air. The twilight did not fall soft and
cool as usual. Worst of all, the wind had begun
to increase.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They didn’t pause to eat. The girl shared
with him the little food she had snatched from
the tent—a handful of jerked venison and a few
pieces of bread—and they ate it on the march.
As the dog worked near her, she slipped scraps
of the dried meat into his mouth. This was no
time to neglect Shep. The success of their flight
depended on his strength and skill.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The shadows lengthened, the sun declined and
set, and an ominous glare spread over the sky
behind them. And the impression began to
grow on both of them that the sheep were constantly
more hard to control. They kept dipping
into the little glens and draws on each side
of their valley; they bunched uneasily, then
spread out into little scurrying groups. Their
sense of unity seemed lost, and more than once
only a quick word, a sharp command, a swift
dash about the flanks of the flock kept them from
a panic. They did not keep the even gait by
which sheep usually move. Sometimes they ran
and sometimes stopped, milling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t understand,” Alice told Hugh, in an
instant when they were within speaking range of
each other. “Sheep usually know what to do
better than their herders. And it looks as if
they’d run straight away from the fire.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was true. Even the domestic sheep have not
lost all their powers of instinct, and every herder
knows that this inner knowledge is often more to
be relied upon than his own intelligence. The
flocks usually know what is best for them. And
many a time a wise and experienced herder will
come racing his flocks down from the higher levels
just in time to escape a blizzard—without a
word of forecast from the weather man. He has
simply followed the sheep who in turn have
obeyed their own instincts. And Hugh, too,
found himself wondering why the flocks seemed
so reluctant to flee down into the valley. It was
true that their course led them to a narrow pass,
bound on each side by steep cliffs and impassable
walls of brush, but the flock could pass through
with ease. It looked to him as if the sheep did
not themselves know where they wished to go,
but were undeniably uneasy and vacillating.
The thought haunted Hugh, returning again
and again, and filling him with a vague discomfort
and dread.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There would be light to travel by to-night.
The glare in the sky behind them ever brightened,
and the eyes kept seeking it with an irresistible
apprehension. It cast a red glow over
the whole forest world. The warm color deepened
as the night encroached upon the twilight,
and all semblance of reality faded from the land.
It was as if it had been dipped in red wine. The
great trees were incarnadine, the canyons swam
in red vapor, even the sheep had red wool. No
longer was this the green and lovely mountain
realm they had known. Rather it was an inferno
of mythology, an underworld lighted by sulphurous
fires.</p>

<p class='pindent'>From time to time, through the long afternoon,
they beheld the march of the wild creatures.
All manner of the forest people passed
them, sometimes in little groups, sometimes one
by one. Often the deer sped by, seemingly almost
flying in the long tree-lanes; once a coyote
ran yapping, his fur singed by the fire, and once
a great bull elk stalked soberly past. He seemed
to give no thought to the man that walked behind
the sheep,—the same form that had terrorized
him that summer day beside the spring.
Once a porcupine rattled his quills on a nearby
hillside, and far away the brush crinkled and
popped as a cougar passed through. And now—in
the early night—a magnificent grizzly—that
ancient and mystic nobleman of the forest—ambled
past him at an awkward run.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he was no longer gray. The red radiance
was upon him, too. Hugh watched him, but for
once the sheep paid him no heed. The terror
behind them left no room for their usual fears.
And the bear slowly reduced his pace to a walk
and then stopped altogether.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh couldn’t have told why he kept his eyes
upon the old bear with such entranced attention.
For an instant he forgot his task, the dreadful
beauty of the fire-lighted forest, and even Alice,
riding back and forth on her horse. He seemed
to know that from this shaggy forest creature he
was to receive a sign that must not be ignored or
missed. “The wild folk show the way,” is one
of the oldest maxims of the forest, and Hugh had
learned his lesson. He was the shepherd, but
also he was the forester. And the simple faith,
the humbleness, the sure and inner knowledge of
the Indian had come to him at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The bear seemed distressed. For a moment
he stood quite still, then turned his great head
this way and that. And then he turned back,
running at top speed, toward the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Even before his senses made verification, Hugh
knew beyond all question what the sign betokened.
While he took one breath he stood
strangely silent and bowed, the lines of his face
graven deep, his eyes darkened with shadows.
Then he straightened. The eyes cleared and
looked out straight. The lips set, the muscles
seemed to gather and bunch beneath his brown
skin,—as if for some crucial test.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Strength was upon him. The dog circled by,
seemed to sense it, and paused for an instant at
his feet. Hugh listened. The air was charged
full with the roar of the fire behind, but there
was a new sound too. And far ahead a gray
haze lay over the trees.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He signaled to the girl, then motioned toward
it. He watched her face, and a great weight
came upon his heart when he read in her expression
the fact that she also had discerned the truth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can’t go on,” he said simply. “There’s
a fire in front, too.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXV</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>In the glow of the fire, and speaking just loud
enough to be heard above its roar, Alice and
Hugh made swift appraisal of their situation.
It was not easy to be calm, to hold the body in
subjugation to the brain in that death valley, between
two walls of flame. Yet the calm strength
of the wilderness itself seemed to be in their
thews.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wait, wait,” the girl whispered. “Every
second is precious—but give me time to think. I
know this country, and I’ve got to remember how
the canyons lie.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh stood silent, and endless hours seemed
to go by before the girl had marshalled all her
memories of the geographical nature of Smoky
Land. In reality, her thoughts came quickly and
surely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s only one way,” she told him at last,
“and that’s only a chance. It depends on how
far the fire has advanced behind us. We might
ride out through the old Dark Canyon, back from
the camp at Two Pines.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Alice, the fire has already swept it——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think so. The canyon is deep, and
the fire hasn’t got down into it. We must run
for it—and if we get through to safety we can
ride to a ’phone on the old Lost River road.
Then we can ’phone to the ranger station, and
they may be able to rush men in time to save some
of the forest.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But that wouldn’t save the flock——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. We can’t think of that, Hugh—any
more. We’ve done what we could. We’ll try
to get the dog to follow us, and save him——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then don’t wait any longer,” he urged her.
“And kill the horse if need be.” His hands, a
single instant, groped toward hers. “Good-by——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good-by?” she questioned; and for the first
time a sob caught at her throat. “What do you
mean? Get up behind me. It’s the only
chance——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her eyes leaped to his face,—for the sight of
a little weakness, a little sign of breaking
strength. It was pale, even under the angry
glow of the fire, but it seemed graven of white
stone. “No,” he answered clearly. “No, Alice—just
one of us must go——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then I’ll stay too. I won’t go alone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen!” His voice, ringing out in command
above the roar of the flames, held her and
silenced her. “You’re wasting precious seconds.
The only way you can help is to ride—fast as
the horse can run—and try to send rangers to
make a last stand in the canyon, and maybe help
me out with the sheep. The horse couldn’t make
good time with both of us; it would just mean
that both of us would die, caught between those
two fires. One of us has got to stay here and
try the best he can to head the sheep back in
the direction that we’ve come—to follow you
through the canyon. The wind might change—the
fire might not be able to work down at once
to the canyon floor—and we might all get
through.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s no hope of that. It means death for
you—that’s all it means. And there’s plenty of
time for both of us if you’d just leave the sheep.
Oh, please——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She looked down in desperate appeal, and
she knew her answer when she found a strange
little ghost of a smile at his white lips. “But a
good herder—doesn’t leave his sheep,” he told
her soberly. The tone was perfectly simple,
wholly sincere, utterly free from emotionalism or
self-pity. Yet it thrilled and moved her to the
depths of her being.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She understood. At last she knew this man
who stood before her. Perhaps with this knowledge
there came an understanding of the whole
great race of men,—the breed that has waged
war with the powers of the wilderness, who have
driven back the beast and plowed the fields, established
a protectorate over the wild creatures,
and followed the flocks at the dusky edge of the
forest. No longer was she the employer and he
the servant. She was simply the woman, sick at
heart with fear for the man she loved. And he
was the man: one of a breed that has ever been
willing to die for an ideal. To her, the sheep no
longer mattered. She only knew that the wall
of fire was creeping toward this man, this tall,
straight-eyed companion that held her heart.
Yet she knew in the depths of her own heart that
she could not turn him from his resolve, that she
could not make him break his trust. She had
longed to find strength in him, the strength of
the mountains and the pines, the basic strength
that has made men the rulers of the earth, and
now she had found it,—only to have it break her
heart.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The captain who stayed with his ship when
his children at his hearth wept for his return, the
soldier in his trench for an ideal that few women,
in their heart of hearts, can really understand,
and this shepherd, willing to stand the test of fire
to save his flocks were simply three of one breed.
Nor did they greatly differ from the whole race
of men from which they sprung. They were only
obeying the immutable laws of their own beings.
They could not break trust with themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They didn’t know why. It was as blind faith
as that which will make a mother—a woman useful
to the earth—give her life to save her crying
infant—not through love, not through a sense of
duty, but just from the inexorable command of
the soul. Common sense and the voice of reason
go unheard: and only instinct, blind and
cruel, remains. No human being would blame
Hugh for leaving his flock to the terror of the
flame. Yet he was a man, one of the Breed, and
he had no power to disobey the promptings of his
own spirit.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet out of her tearful eyes, Alice saw in
Hugh’s stand the heaven-sent impulse that has
brought the world up from the darkness. She
understood old wars, the martyrdom of peoples.
Vision had come to her, and throughout the world
she saw men’s works and heard women’s tears.
She could see the Viking, leaving the white arms
of his woman and following western stars; the
frontiersman, striking out from his beloved
hearth to seek new dominions; the blood-stained
paths of armies; the builder, stretching his
bridges across roaring rivers and his railroads
into uncharted lands. Through the long roll of
the ages she saw the shepherd on the rugged hills,
alone and wondering and full of thoughts,
watching his sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man he had been—the waster and the
egotist—was wholly gone now. Only the shepherd
remained. Hugh saw himself as he really
was,—just a pawn by which Destiny works out
vast and invisible schemes of its own. His life
didn’t matter here. His love for this girl beside
him pulled at his heart, but the laws within him
could not be disobeyed. He was only the shepherd,
and here—a milling, panic-stricken band—were
his sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Way round,” he ordered the dog, and the
girl helped him keep the control of the animals
until he had started to turn them. And just for
a moment he took her hands, two little, hard
brown hands that were clasped about his heart.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good-by, Alice,” he said quietly. “Don’t
blame me for staying—and forgive me. All my
life has been wasted, and now I’ve got a chance
to pay the debt. You don’t know what it
means——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But yet she understood this personal reason
too. His manhood was at the test; and even if
he should fall, at last, victim to those hungry
flames, his life would have been vindicated—beyond
all the powers of Destiny to accuse him.
He lifted her hands to his lips and kissed them
again and again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe there won’t be time to put my petitions
to the queen,” he told her soberly. “But
I want you to know what they were to be. I
love you, Alice. Never doubt it—never forget
it. And it’s my right—to tell you at last.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I love you, Hugh,” she answered
clearly. He heard her without exultation, rather
only with a great and inward peace, as if this
were his ordained fate, his destiny fulfilled. He
swung toward her, their lips met. And she rode
away toward the advancing wall of flame.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXVI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Landy Fargo was not of a mind to have his
plan go wrong, so he had given particular care
to its details. He didn’t want to take even the
slightest chance of failure. Not probabilities
alone mattered at a time like this: he must consider
the remotest possibilities also. And he had
not forgotten the pass through the Dark Canyon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They may try to drive the sheep out that
way,” he had said, “and if they get there before
eight o’clock, they may make it. By eight at
most, I should think, the fire’ll get into it—and
then of course they’re blocked—penned in tight.
And we don’t want to forget the ’phone line on
the old Lost River road—we don’t want ’em to
get to that and send for help until every pass is
blocked. If they leave the sheep and try to ride
out, they’ll take that way—and that’s why I
don’t want you to fire it earlier in a special trip.
I want you to puncture the horse and the man.
You can do it—I’ve seen you shoot too many
times to think you can’t. All you have to do is
wait on the trail. The plan’s only half done if
that tenderfoot gets out alive—and that’s the
surest way to prevent it, and a way there won’t
be no doubt about later. And if you want to
spare the girl, all right—but keep her there until
the pass is closed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Nothing could be plainer. José waited on the
trail. The fire madness still branded—like fire
itself—his face; and he found an evil exultation
in watching the slow sweep of the flames behind
him. But he didn’t intend to wait too long. He
didn’t want to take any chances on being trapped
himself. The way of the forest fire is the way
of the wind, and no man can always predict accurately
where it will go. Besides, he was just
at the mouth of the canyon and had a long ride
himself to safety.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Mexican found nothing to his displeasure
in the work. The pay was good, and there had
been a certain, savage rapture in aiding in the
destruction of the forest and its people. But the
work before him now promised best of all. It
was just straight shooting and clean killing, and
he had been well educated for such work as this.
He had known the deserts, the hot battles of his
own land; his eyes were true and his hand steady.
Best of all, the interview with the girl afforded
pleasing conjectures. José had not often operated
among women. His eyes were lurid with a
fire of different source from the red glamor that
was over all the land.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was eight o’clock, and the fire was only a
little behind time. Fargo had estimated with
really astonishing accuracy. Already the flames
played on the ridges at each side, the tall trees
caught, flashed, swayed and fell, and the fiery
wall was slowly working down into the canyon’s
depths. Once there, no passing could be made.
He couldn’t wait much longer. Fargo would
have to forego the detailed report of how
Hugh lurched and fell from the saddle at the
rifle report. José had to think of his own
safety.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant he flattened in the trail.
The butt-plate of his rifle nestled against his
shoulder. Of course it might be just the footfall
of the running elk, fleeing in terror before the
fire, but this possibility died quickly. Before
ever the rider came in sight, he recognized the
sound as the hoofbeats of a racing horse. Thus
he was to have his pleasure, after all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No deer, quietly grazing toward the thicket
where the puma lay crouched, no blind gopher,
venturing forth from his burrow in the icy gaze of
a rattler stretched still and lifeless in the moonlight,
ever sped so straight and unsuspecting into
an ambush as Alice, riding toward the shadowed
mouth of the canyon. A little gleam of hope
had returned to her, for she saw that the fire advanced
but slowly from the ridge above the canyon,
and that she could not only ride to safety
but that there was some hope, at least, of Hugh
driving his flocks through in time. True, a long
ride still remained before her, but even the
longest chance was worth praying for. And even
as the prayers rose, sweet and appealing, from
her lips, José saw her speeding horse through his
rifle sights.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His finger was perfectly steady as he pressed
back against the trigger. Except for one little
telltale curl of his lips, his dark face was impassive.
The rifle cracked, a little dart of flame that
was scarcely distinguishable in the eerie and
terrible glow of the fire spat from the muzzle and
the horse shot forward with a strange effect of
diving into the dead pine needles. There was no
need to shoot twice. The noble heart of the animal
was pierced through with the wicked lead.
He had done his last service—willingly and well—and
what need had he of a more eloquent epitaph?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Alice was fairly hurled through the air, and it
seemed an incredible thing that human flesh
should endure such a fall and yet retain life. She
shot down into a heavy clump of brush a few
feet in front of the head of the dead horse. No
second rider followed. Fargo’s enemy had evidently
stayed with his sheep. And for a moment
José thought the rest of his own anticipated
pleasure would be lacking too: the girl lay very
still and curiously huddled in the dry brush.</p>

<p class='pindent'>José sped forward, but in a moment he saw
that she was not seriously hurt. The thicket had
broken the force of her fall, and although she
was unconscious, deep scratches at her throat
and arms were her only visible wounds. Once
more a flood of dark conjectures returned to him.
It would be pleasant, he thought, to have a short
chat with her when she wakened,—a grim, exciting
little talk at the threshold of the flame.
The meeting possessed all kinds of possibilities.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that instant he saw the pistol that swung
at her belt, and he remembered Fargo’s word to
take no chances. He took hold of her shoulders:
and he liked the touch of her warm flesh in his
hands. Very softly he drew her to a young tree,
letting her half-recline with her shoulders against
its trunk. And at the first glance it would have
seemed that he was only trying to make her comfortable.
The real truth could only be determined
when he drew her hands back around the
slender trunk and tied them fast.</p>

<hr class='tbk105'/>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh had not heard the shot that had killed
the horse. The distance was not far and in the
silent summer nights he would have heard the
sharp sound with ease, but to-night the forest
was full of the roar of the fire. And perhaps
his senses had already lost some of their acuteness.
It seemed to him that a curious stupor was
stealing over him, a sadness and a despair that he
could not fight off.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the first place he was terribly fatigued. As
the moments had passed, one by one with a
dreadful slowness that only men in the peril of
death may know, the chances for his escape
seemed ever less. The fire steadily encroached
upon him, the heat increased, the red glow over
the wilderness brightened until the world no
longer seemed that into which he was born. And
now the sheep had begun to “balk,” refusing to
be driven. It was a development that a more experienced
herder might have expected and
dreaded, and it always means that the spirit of
the flock is broken. The animals refused to
move, standing like forms in stone with legs
braced and heads down, and it was a sign that the
dread spirit of the wilderness was about to claim
its own. When the sheep despair of saving
themselves, the herder knows that the end is very
near indeed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They would run forward a little way as the
dog barked at their heels, but would halt at once.
Hugh could not urge them on at all. The fire
swept ever nearer. There seemed no use of further
effort now: he couldn’t save the flock. And
the crudest thing of all was that the shot had
gone unheard,—and he could not even turn his
strength to the aid of Alice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And just for an instant Hugh shook off his
weight of despair to wonder at the dog. The
animal was standing motionless—almost like a
bird dog at the point—one foot lifted, ears alert,
staring away into the thickets whither Alice had
gone. He seemed to have forgotten the sheep.
The firelight bathed him, finding a curious reflection
in the garnet glare in his eyes. He swung
about to eye the sheep and as quickly returned
to his rapt contemplation of the forest in front
of the flock. And to Hugh it might have seemed
that a grim and savage battle was being waged
in the dim depths of the faithful creature’s soul.
He seemed to be torn between two great impulses.
One of them was his ancient trust,—to
stay and guard the sheep. The other would lead
him into the forest ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was growling now, with a savagery that
Hugh had never seen in him before. He turned
to his master with a look that was to haunt the
man even in those wild moments following, in
which he would make his last effort to drive the
flock on to safety,—an expression of wistful and
unutterable appeal. And then he raced away—just
as on a summer day he had sped when one
of the lambs had been menaced by Running Feet—into
the deep thickets beyond.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A strange and tragic blankness came into
Hugh’s face. The lips seemed to waver, the firm
set of the jaw weakened,—just for an instant.
Despair was upon him. Seemingly the forest
had beaten him down and broken him at last.
Blow after blow, disaster upon disaster, until the
spirit broke beneath them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So you’ve deserted me, old Shep,” he said
simply. “So you’re fleeing to save yourself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>For was he not taking the same path that Alice
had taken, heading for the deep canyon where
perhaps the fire had not yet crept and the pass
was open? The blow went deep to Hugh. He
was down at last to the elements of life—with
death, a stern reality, even now stretching dreadful
arms toward him—and it is not good in such
moments to have an ancient and beloved trust
betrayed. The fight was lost: no honor remained
except to go down with the ship.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Hugh hadn’t understood. A pin-prick
through the air, Shep had heard the crack of
José’s rifle. This in itself would not have been
enough to call him from his post of duty with
the flocks. But through the air came even clearer
messages: mysterious vibrations such as only the
lower creatures of the earth—closer to the heart
of things than their proud masters—could receive.
No man may tell in what language those
messages were sent, by what impulse they came
tingling through the still forest to him, and by
what law within himself he made his answer. But
it was always the way of the great shepherd dog
to hasten to the aid of those of his flock who
were in peril. Perhaps in his heart of hearts this
slim, tall mistress of his—one whose word must
never be disobeyed—was also just one of his
wards, in whose service his life was merely a
pawn. But in the secret ways of the wilderness
he knew of her distress, and had sped to give
help.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXVII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>While José Mertos had been riding, Landy
Fargo had been busy, too. It wasn’t enough
just to order things done, and later to learn of
their accomplishment. In the hand, more than
the brain, lies the gratification of vengeance; and
Fargo didn’t intend to miss this satisfaction.
Riding swiftly, he had lighted the circle of fires
in front of the sheep flock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Exultation was upon him when he saw the red,
greedy flames creeping into the trees. It was his
long-awaited moment. By no conceivable circumstances
could the flock and its shepherd escape.
He had prepared for every emergency,
blockaded every pass.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The blows that Hugh had dealt him were paid
for at last. His dog-pack been laid low, in a
still, ugly, curious heap—but there would be
other silent ones before this night was done.
And there would be less of beauty in these still
forms than in those of his slain pets. Everything
was square at last. His brutal lips leered
and his eyes burned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When his last fire was ignited, he stopped for
a moment of exultation. The red terror was
sweeping into the trees, faster than he had ever
dreamed. Even now his enemies were enclosed
in a prison of fiery walls from which they never
could escape. “I’ve got you,” he cried in
triumph. “You thought you could trample on
me and get away with it, but I’ve shown you.”
He lifted his powerful hand. “I’ve crushed you—like
that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>His brutal fingers closed. His fiery eyes
glowed with self-worship. “With this hand,”
he exulted, in half-insane rapture. “This is the
hand that crushed you—no one else’s. You
thought you could stand against it, but it’s
smashed you at last.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He waited a little while more, fascinated by
the lightning advance of the fire. The brush and
trees were particularly heavy in this glade—and
the red tongues swept forward with startling rapidity.
He hadn’t much time to linger further.
It was always best to play safe—and take no
chances on this demon of fire. Yet he stayed,
thrilled and fascinated by his handiwork.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All at once a crackle behind him caused him
to glance quickly over his shoulder. He saw to
his terror that a little arm of the fire had spread
here, too. He whirled his horse, then with a
savage oath lashed down with his quirt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet plenty of time remained, by riding swiftly,
to save himself. There was no need for fear.
He would go straight to his home, and from its
windows he could watch the progress of the fire.
Yet the crackle behind him got on his nerves,
and he struck his horse again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And this second blow was a serious mistake.
The horse was already running at a swift pace
down the narrow trail. There is a limit to the
speed a horse can run with safety in the Idaho
mountains, and that limit was already reached.
Beyond that point comes only panic and blind
frenzy. The horse leaped forward to the wildest
pace it knew.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The sweat leaped from Fargo’s dark brow,
and slowly his self-mastery came back to him.
There was no need of this wild flight. He had
plenty of time. He started to check the horse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at that instant the sinister forces of the
wild—always lurking in ambush for such as
Fargo—saw their chance. And the forest-demons
do not need mighty weapons. Their
agents are the Little Things, the covert trivialities
that few men notice. In this case the resistless
force that overwhelmed him was only a
furry, half-blind creature of the dust—a rodent
such as ordinarily Fargo would press his heel
upon and crush.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The rodent had been enlarging his winter
home, and he had dug away some of the earth
from under the trail. The horse was running too
wildly to be careful, his hoof broke through the
little shelf of dirt, and he tripped and hurled
headlong.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To the rodent, the disaster meant further
hours of toil—digging tirelessly till his rooms
were clean again. Through some incredible
chance—perhaps because the great god Manitou
had saved him for further work—the horse was
uninjured, and soon regained his feet. But
Fargo was hurled to the earth as the horse fell,
and he only knew a great darkness that transcended
and smothered him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As if they were trying to restore his nervous
forces for some great ordeal, the forest gods
granted him a full hour of peaceful, restful
slumber. But it was doubtful mercy. At the
end of that hour they laughed—a sound not
greatly different from the crackle of a great fire,
and began to call him into consciousness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>First they brought evil dreams, and Fargo
started and murmured in his sleep, tossing a
little on his bed of pine needles. His look of
triumph was gone from his brutal features now.
Instead, there was a curious drawing and strain—and
for all the sudden heat of the early night,
cold drops on his brow. Still his eyes wouldn’t
open. He fought hard, and his quivering body
rustled the dead leaves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Curious streaks of light slashed before his eyeballs
now—all colors, and they filled him with
horror. But slowly remembrance returned to
him. He had set the fire, and now it was time to
ride away. He mustn’t get caught in his own
trap. He rallied all the powers of his spirit and
fought for consciousness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the forest-demons decided to grant it to
him. It was not in accord with their plans that
he should lie insensible throughout all the entertainment
they had provided for him. So they
not only permitted him to waken, but as a final
favor they bestowed upon him a super-consciousness—a
fine keying of every nerve and an added
sensitiveness to his flesh. It was their final beneficence,
and they gave it freely. Fargo opened
his starting eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His first thought was of flight, and therefore
of his horse. But the animal, knowing of old
the fear of fire, had sped on down the trail.
Fargo was alone. He had to run for it, then,
before it was too late.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. He sat up,
shuddering.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It occurred to him then that the fall had bewildered
him as to his directions. At the first
glance he beheld the fire, but it was in front of
him instead of behind where he had left it. It
was curious to be so turned around—and he
looked over his shoulder, intending to mark the
best trail to safety. And then Landy Fargo’s
throat convulsed and his breath came out in a
scream.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fiery wall was behind him, too, leaping
toward him with a deadly and terrible ferocity.
The trees flamed like great torches, swayed and
fell; the brush was a wall of fire. The conflagration
had made a great half circle, just as he had
planned, converging to the left of him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But to his right the fiery barrier was nearest
of all. He didn’t have to turn to know that. Its
crackle was just in his ear. And then he leaped
to his feet with a wild, blasphemous cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A little peninsula of fire had crept out from
the burning brush to his right, and had paused—in
grim speculation—beside something hard and
strong that it found resting in the pine needles.
It was Fargo’s hand—the hand in which he had
exulted such a little time before, and which had
set the flame. As if in gratitude, the red tongue
licked at its brown skin.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Full knowledge came to Fargo then. All
about him raged the fire, pressing ever closer.
He was helpless—powerless to aid himself as
the Shropshire lamb that he had thrown, so many
weeks ago, among his hounds. His own handiwork
had turned against him, and the vengeance
of the wilderness was complete.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXVIII</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>The face before her seemed only part of her
dark dreams as Alice wakened from her unconsciousness.
She hoped in an instant to waken
into the world of reality she had always known,
not this abyss with its red glare and creeping
tongues of flame. She couldn’t understand why
her arms felt so numb and why they didn’t
answer the command of her nerves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>No moment of Alice’s life had ever been more
fearful, more fraught with despair, than that in
which her full consciousness returned to her.
The fire’s glow was more lurid and terrifying
than ever. The flame itself was nearer: already
it had crept almost to the bottom of the glen.
The way was still open, but a few moments
would see it closed. Yet all these things were
apart from her and infinitely remote. The only
reality in her life, now that her dreams were done,
was the intent face of her captor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The red radiance was upon it, and all semblance
of humanity seemed gone. Rather it
seemed the face of some dreadful inmate of an
Inferno. The glow was in his dark eyes too:
they were too close to hers for her to mistake this
fact. They smouldered, like the dead trees where
the flame had swept. Her throat convulsed, and
a high, far-carrying, piercing scream shuddered
out above the roar of the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But it was cut off as from beneath a blade.
She had summoned all the strength of her will
and spirit. After all, it was only wasted
strength to scream. There were none to hear her
in these fire-swept forests. When the pack of
hounds had been about her, she had still retained
a dim and flickering hope that Hugh would come
to her aid, but she had no such hope now. She
knew that stern, unbending man who watched
the sheep. All her tears, all her prayers could
never move him: he would linger, still at his
post, till the insatiable tongues of fire licked at
his breast. She was only the woman, but Hugh
watched the sheep! Besides, the thing to do was
to show this dark man before her that even if
this was the moment of her death she would show
no fear.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And this was no easy thing. Only because she
was of the mountains, because the spirit that
dwells in the forest, the rugged places, the wilderness
primeval dwelt also in her, was she able
to effect it at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t be afraid,” the man was saying.
“You ain’t goin’ to be hurt. I’m goin’ to let
you go in plenty of time. In the first place, I’ve
got to get out the same way myself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She could believe this, at least. She saw that
he kept close watch of the fire as it crept down
toward the floor of the canyon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her eyes looked straight into his. Yet the fear
crept at her heart—for if indeed he intended to
let her go, none but the most dreadful reason occurred
to her why she should be tied. And in
truth, the spirit of Landy Fargo was far distant
now. José knew perfectly that before she could
reach a ’phone and men be secured to battle at
this last stand against the fire, the hungry little
tongues would have already encompassed the
canyon. He only knew that he was shivering
strangely, and that he was not yet ready to let
her go. “Untie my hands,” she commanded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I will—quick enough. I just thought we’d
talk a while first. It ain’t often I get to talk to
a pretty girl like you——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There in the path of the advancing flame the
words were ineffably strange and terrible to the
girl,—like some demoniac torture of a shadow world.
“And you’re not going to have a chance
now,” she told him clearly. “If you want to
leave me here in the track of the fire, it’s in your
power to do it—but it won’t make me bend to
you, or plead with you, or treat you any different
than I’ve ever treated you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man stiffened. She saw the gleam of his
teeth through his thin lips. “Don’t be too sure.
I was told to let you go, but nothin’s goin’ to
happen to me if I don’t. Your position ain’t
what it used to be, Alice, and maybe I’m a different
kind of man than you’re used to. I come
from a different race. And maybe you’d better
try to be a little more polite.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I can only tell you this,” she went on as
if she had not heard. “If you do leave me here,
if you put one indignity to me above what you’ve
already put by tying me up and making me listen
to your talk, you’ll pay for it. I’m just as
sure of that as I am that I’m alive.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the man might have listened in vain for
any waver, any note of doubt in her tone. She
spoke as if in infallible prophecy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s goin’ to do it?” the man demanded.
“Who’s goin’ to find out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It will be found out. You’ll pay, whether I
live or not. It seems—almost as if vengeance is
coming to you soon—right away. I can’t tell you
how I know. I only tell you to let me go.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re from the desert, José, and not the
mountains, and maybe the desert lets debts go
unpaid,” she went on, in a clear free tone of inspiration.
“But I know these forests. It seems
to me I know them now—better than I ever did
before. One more insult—and I tell you you’ll
pay.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But José laughed. Just a little, harsh note of
scorn fell from his lips. He was a mountain
man, but in his passion and frenzy his wilderness
knowledge had deserted him. He did not heed
her words. And he bent to press his lips to hers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And at that instant the thicket behind them
parted as a terrible avenger leaped through. It
was not his first leap in vengeance. Many times,
in his years of service, he had sprung with magnificent
ferocity at the throat of a wolf that menaced
the white sheep in his care. But never before
had he sprung so true, with such shattering
power and dreadful fury. White fangs that
could carry a lamb as tenderly as the arms of a
shepherdess flashed in the firelight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just as she had said, the wilderness had
spoken. One of the guardians of the flock had
swept to her aid. Because he was in defense of
his own, obeying the laws of his inmost being, his
blow had the might not only of the wilderness
but of that high power that has waged war with
the wilderness, tamed its passions, subjugated its
peoples. No man may say if love for this tall
shepherdess was a factor too. Without its impulse,
the lesser creatures do not often unleash
their fury against man. Shep the dog had come
because it was his duty and his destiny, and he
sprang like a tigress through the air.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The great shepherd dog struck like a wolf,
aiming straight for the throat. José had no time
to ward off the blow. His back was to the
thicket. He didn’t even see it come. Gleaming
fangs tore once at his dark flesh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then for an instant there was only the red
fire and the red sky, with the wilderness bathed
in their glow between. The dog had dropped
silently to his four feet and was crouched, waiting
to see if another blow were needed. The
girl’s face seemed bereft of all life. And that
which had been a man was only a huddled heap
in the pine needles, dark and strange and impotent
as the dust. Red fire and red sky, and
now a scarlet fountain, playing softly with ever
decreasing impulses, on the parched earth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Shep had avenged the insult. And in paying
the debt the pair of hands that might have untied
the bonds that held Alice in the path of the fire
were stilled.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXIX</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>Almost in a breath Shep’s ferocity passed
away. He eyed the still form for a sign of life,
but quickly the fierce yellow lights died from his
eyes. The avenger, the remorseless slayer was
gone, and just the shepherd, rare comrade and
fellow guardian of the flocks, remained. His
tail wagged in friendship, the stiff hairs began to
lie down at the animal’s shoulders. And he
looked up in inarticulate appeal to the girl’s face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s no use, old boy,” the girl told him. “I’m
tied fast and I can’t go with you. And—yes—the
fire is coming.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She told the truth. It had still a long way to
go before it encompassed the floor of the draw,
but it was steadily, remorselessly drawing
nearer. The dog whined softly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl shook her head. “I can’t go, old
boy,” she repeated. “We’re lost—you and I and
your master, too. You’ve helped us all you
can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The animal seemed to understand. A great,
brooding sorrow came into his intelligent eyes.
Here was the third of them that had given his all
for the sheep, one who had stayed for his work
when his swift legs and sure instincts could have
saved him from the fire; and when all is said and
done, mostly for the same reason that Hugh had
stayed with his sheep,—because it was the inner
law of the breed from which he sprung. He was
the shepherd dog, and he had fulfilled his obligation
even to the death. Many of his breed before
him had done as much. Many would come after—humble,
unlauded—and obey to the inevitable
end the same laws. The high schemes of the
Universe were dimly before her eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog barked again, then encircled the tree
and licked softly at her hands. It occurred to
the girl that she might try to make her position
plain to the dog, urging him to bring his master
to her aid. Yet she couldn’t gesture with her
pinioned arms, and the understanding of Shep
did not go out to words alone. She couldn’t
write a note to fasten to the dog’s collar. “Help
me, Shep,” she pleaded. “Go and get help.”
The dog whined again, and she felt his warm
tongue at her palm. “Can you hear me, Shep?
Can’t you understand?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>As if in obedience, the dog turned and sped
away. But in this last fearful hour she could not
make herself accept even this shadow of a hope.
Besides, Hugh was probably already dead or
hemmed in by the two converging crescents of
fire. She found herself wishing that the dog had
stayed. He would be company for her in that
last awful moment just before the shadow would
drop down for good and all. She found herself
dreaming that if he had only stayed, perhaps his
kindly fangs would play—just one little time—at
her throat, saving her from the final agony.
He had always understood so well: perhaps he
would have helped her cheat those stealing
tongues of red that ever crept nearer. She
couldn’t reach the pistol at her waist to cheat
them herself. At least, she might have partaken
of Shep’s own great spirit of strength.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was alone and afraid at the dark frontier
of death. There was no help, no mercy from the
flames: the shadows hovered close. She wished
she had stayed with Hugh. Death and its agony
would not seem so fearful then, in the shelter of
his arms. Now his kiss was cold upon her lips;
but with their love to sustain them they could
have faced bravely their remorseless doom.
Smoke drifted around her. Most of it was carried
up and away, yet perhaps it would bring
merciful unconsciousness before the flames
should creep up to her.</p>

<hr class='tbk106'/>

<p class='pindent'>Running at top speed, Shep circled around
the flock to Hugh’s side. The man was standing
up to receive him. He had seen his speeding
form a long way off through the dim clouds of
smoke: the only creature that moved in the whole
breadth of the forest. The sheep themselves
were making no further effort to flee from the
flames. Far or near, the wall had encircled them;
and they stood as if stricken dead, heads close to
the ground.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Great God, Shep!” the man cried. “Have
you come back to see it through with me?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>And a light that had no kinship with the dreadful
glare of the fire flashed to the man’s face.
Shep was returning to his flocks. He had kept
faith, after all. He was only a dog, yet to Hugh
his fidelity was a clear, bright shaft of light in an
impenetrable darkness. No scales of earth could
measure the difference that it made to him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Yet Shep did not come to nestle in his strong
arms. Memories were flashing over him, and he
remembered a morning, months ago, when one
of his wards had been in danger and he himself
had been powerless to save. A lamb had fallen
into the torrent, and his master had gone quickly
to his aid. When he was within a few feet of
Hugh he paused, barking, then ran a little way
back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, Shep?” the man asked. “What
do you want me to do?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog barked louder, running forward
again and pausing to see if his master followed.
Hugh gazed at him with widening eyes. At first
it did not even occur to him that Alice was in
distress. He supposed that she had fled to safety
long since. Yet the dog was frenzied in his
eagerness, just as in times past when some beast
of prey had menaced one of the sheep. And
Hugh remembered that never once had the dog
urged him forward without cause.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, old man?” he cried. “There’s
no way out. Let’s stay with the sheep—and see
it through.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But still the animal entreated. The fire raged
and roared, burning slowly on the descents, leaping
with incredible fury as it mounted the ridges,
advancing steadily down the floor of the valley.
East, west, south and north,—everywhere a wall
of flame. There was no way out. Yet he could
not doubt the urgency of this appeal. And all at
once the instinct came to answer it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps it was because of his abiding faith in
the animal’s intelligence, perhaps just that in
this final hour he knew that any miracle might
come to pass. He sprang up, and he didn’t try
to keep up with the dog at a walking pace. He
ran from the first step.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dead logs across the trail, the hills and
steeps, the narrow passes between the walls of
brush did not check his pace at all. The air
surged into his lungs in great sobs, his muscles
ached and burned as if the flames had already
reached them. He knew—by token of a clear
voice within himself—that he was running for a
<span class='it'>life</span>—one that was very dear to him and must be
saved at all cost.</p>

<hr class='tbk107'/>

<p class='pindent'>Her arms still pinioned, Alice sat waiting for
the end. It was hard to be brave in the ever-nearing
presence of the flames. If there had
been a cheering word from one she loved,
one touch of a friendly hand, the moments
would not seem so terrible and long. But she
was helpless and alone, and all hope of aid was
gone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The way out of the fire trap was irremediably
closed. True, there was a territory of large extent
behind her not yet burned over, and she
knew that if Hugh and his flock still lived they
were in that space. In all directions raged the
fire, and now the flames had stretched their terrible
barrier clear across the little canyon in
which she was a prisoner. Even if by some
miracle her arms should be freed she could not
escape. No human being could pass that flaming
wall in front and yet live. Because she was
in the deepest part of the canyon, its shadowed
mouth where it met the broader canyon of Silver
Creek, the fire had not yet burned down to her,
but by no thousandth chance could this last little
space of forest be spared. A few moments or
many: the issue was unmistakable in the end. If
the fire continued its present slow advance, perhaps
the fevered cycle of her blood might be repeated
many times; but at any instant a falling
pine top from the flaming forest above might
catch the tree against which she was bound and
bring the end. There was only one thing left to
pray for, now. There was still the fond wish
that by some miracle the passing might come
swiftly, that her soul might wing its way swift
and free, not struggling from a pain-racked
body, out of this dreadful land of glaring sky
and glaring fire. Perhaps the out trail might be
level and easy, after all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her thoughts no longer held quite true.
Strange fancies swept her; and back of them was
the clear, rational, unconfused voice of hope that
perhaps these portended an unconsciousness that
would spare her the cruelty of the end. The
night must be far advanced by now, she thought.
Uncounted centuries had come and dragged
away since Hugh had pressed his lips to hers and
she had ridden into the greenwood. The heat of
the fire above her grew steadily fiercer, and she
saw with a strange sorrow that the little mountain
flowers—hardy, lovely things that had
weathered the drought—were withered and dying.
The smoke poured in billowing storms
across the mouth of the canyon. The bark of the
tree felt scorching hot against her bare arms.
And still the frightful glare of the sky lighted
up, as if in dreadful enchantment, the little space
of unburned forest where she was confined.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And now the jaws of the flame were closing
behind her. Only a little island was left, and
any instant the faint night wind would blow the
red tongues into the thicket beside her. It was
the end. Perhaps the smoke—rarely unbearably
dense, rangers know, even at the very edge
of the forest fire—might bring unconsciousness
after all. She felt herself drifting.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sobbing words were at her lips. “Be merciful,”
she pleaded to the Powers of whom mercy
is the eternal spirit. “Don’t make it last any
longer! Let me go to sleep——” Yet no ear,
it seemed to her, could hear her above the frightful
roar of the fire. And even her arms were
bound so that she could not stretch them up in
supplication.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And it was as if her prayer had been heard. At
least she was not to endure the end in loneliness.
A sharp, high bark pierced through the angry
crackle and roar of the fire, and Shep leaped to
her side. Only a narrow path remained between
the two converging walls of flame behind her: a
dreadful place of blasting heat and blinding
smoke and darting flame tongues, yet the dog
had sprung through like a winged creature. Behind
him, still brave and strong and enduring,
came his master.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He also sprang bravely through the closing
barrier of flame. A great spirit of undying
strength was on him, and the red arms reached
for him in vain. He swung to her side, a dim,
strange figure that at first seemed only a figment
of fancy born in her prayers. He did not speak
to her. Only strangled sobs were at his lips.
His white-bladed hunting knife flashed at her
bonds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He snatched off his coat, wrapping it in one
motion about her head and shoulders. He knew
how those fire tongues he had just passed
through would receive her tresses. And then she
felt muscular arms go around her. As lightly
and as strongly as if on the wings of Death itself
he lifted her to his breast. He sprang forward
with all his strength. And the three of them
fought their way back—through the gates of
peril—to the last remaining island in the sea of
flame.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXX</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>It was more than a reprieve,—the little hour
that they would have together before their own
island was submerged. They were three shepherds,
and in their united strength they were not
so fearful of such stars as would be borne into
their sky. Here was comradeship instead of
loneliness, courage instead of terror, and the
deathless joy of love instead of despair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They went, the three of them, back to the motionless
flock. In the first place the sheep were
fairly in the center of the space of unburned
forest—a brushy hollow where the smoke was
least—moving just enough to keep halfway between
the steadily advancing fire up-wind and
the slow-creeping backfire in the opposite direction.
Besides, they were shepherds, and in their
own hearts they felt a blind but undeniable satisfaction
in being with the flocks at the end.</p>

<p class='pindent'>José and his employer had done their work
well. In any direction their victims chose to
look the forest was swept with fire. And in the
ruby glare the resistless march of the flames was
a strange and awful thing to watch. Sweeping
fast up the ridges, creeping with almost imperceptible
progress down the glades, leaping with
indescribable ferocity through the green
branches of the ancient trees, slashing through a
brush wall and crossing in one pounce the
streams and the trails. This last hour was one
of weird and terrible beauty, at least. The three
of them stood beside the silent flocks, quietly
waiting for their fate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no use in trying to drive the sheep.
There was no place for them to go. True, to the
right and left of the flock the flame-wall was
slightly more distant than to the front and rear,
but it was as impassable one place as another.
Besides, the sheep themselves refused to be
driven. They too were quietly waiting for the
end.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“One more hour,” Hugh whispered. His
arms went about her, silently and strongly, as if
to shelter her. “It can’t be over an hour more.
And then we go—some place—together.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl shivered in his arms. “I wish it
would come soon. It hurts—to breathe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was so. The heated air tortured the lungs.
There was none of the cool delight that usually
precedes the hour of dawn in the mountain
realms. Above them the pines stood in their
dark watch: silent, somber, noble sentries of the
wilderness. But for all their venerable years and
their great strength, they could not stand against
the enemy that menaced them now. The red
tongues would sweep through them, they would
shudder and fall, and only black trunks, dismal
and ugly, would remain when the red scourge
had passed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl suddenly turned entreating eyes to
his. There was only the dark shadow of fear in
them now, none of the mad panic they had had
in the nearby canyon. “Listen, Hugh,” she
whispered, just in his ear. “I have one thing to
ask—the hardest thing of all.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh flinched—ever so slightly—and an immeasurable
dread came into his face. “Tell me
what it is. I think I know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s going to be hard because—you love me.
And you do, don’t you? I can’t be brave if you
don’t. I want to keep remembering it——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He nodded, gravely. No words were needed
to assure her. This strong shepherd could only
speak truth at a time like this.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But we’re mountain people—and you know
it will be the best. And it’s because you love me—that
I know you’ll do it for me. To spare me—and
then yourself. I’d have done it back there
if my hands hadn’t been tied.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He understood. Her hand stole around him
and touched the butt of his pistol. For a long
breath he waged an inward battle, and he called
on all the powers of his spirit to give him
strength. But it was true that they were of the
mountains; and they saw issues straight. This
was no hour for emotionalism and folly. The
flames swept nearer; but with one press of his
finger on the revolver trigger he could save this
girl he loved the final horror of a fiery death.
One shock, one sweep through the darkness, and
then peace: not the slow agony of the enfolding
flames. He could not do better service. He was
the shepherd still.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” he promised. “I’ll do it—at the end
of the hour. And the dog too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was only fair to include the dog. He was
one of the triumvirate. He had kept faith, he
had stood the test. The moments were born,
passed and died. The tall trees caught, flamed,
and fell. The smoke clouds gathered, enfolded
the three of them, and passed on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were nearly blind from the wood smoke,
the heat had become almost too much for living
flesh to bear. There was no need of waiting
longer, perhaps to fall into unconsciousness from
the smoke and then to waken to feel the flames
licking at the flesh. The wall of fire was still
nearly a mile distant to the west, but its march
was swift. Hugh’s terror had gone, and he
found himself longing for such cool peace as
would follow the third revolver shot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girl’s lips pressed his. She knew the progress
of his thoughts. “There’s no use of waiting
any longer,” she said unwaveringly. “Let
me be the first.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The dog first,” he told her. He couldn’t get
away from an all-engrossing desire to keep her
with him to the end, and to spring out of life
with his hands in hers. Perhaps it would be
kinder to spare her the sight of Shep’s death—yet
his spirit lacked the strength.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The dog first,” the girl repeated. “And
don’t—wait—any more.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dog’s appealing eyes were upon them.
Their own spirit—that of immortality itself
which only men seem to possess—had pervaded
him, and the dark eyes seemed unafraid. To the
beasts, death is a darkness and a fear; but Shep
knew that these two masters would have only
mercy and kindness for him. Hugh’s hand
reached back for the revolver.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the forest gods had not written that Shep
should die so soon. The drama of the flaming
forest was not yet over. An interlude strange
and startling past all words; three figures—vivid
in outline and bathed in the fire’s glow—came
speeding toward them from the thickets to the
east. A gasp of wonder fell from Hugh’s lips
as he beheld them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Two of the forms were unfamiliar, but one of
them was known and beloved of old. Hugh
couldn’t mistake the trim figure, the curved undeveloped
horns of the first of the three. No
break appeared in the fiery wall toward the east,
yet Spot—his own unmistakable form and his
wool unsinged—ran steadily toward them in
plain sight of all three. It was as if he had returned
from the shadow world, a ghostly savior
in the hour when his old followers hovered at the
gulf of death. A great wave of hope swept the
man’s frame.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But in an instant he saw the explanation.
Spot and his ewes had not come unaccompanied.
A tawny form loped swiftly behind them. It
was Broken Fang, the monarch of the cougars,
and he had simply driven the three bighorn down
into his own hunting ground at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If there’s a way in, there must be a way out,”
Hugh spoke sharply. “Stand still, so the
cougar’ll come in range.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly he seemed to know that in some invisible
and secret way that he could not trace, the
whole issue of life and death had centered down
to his war with Broken Fang. He couldn’t have
told why. Dimly he knew that after days and
hours of desperate pursuit, following still the
ancient herd-instinct and perhaps impelled by
the memories of certain crises, when he had run
with the domestic sheep, Spot had come here for
protection from the tawny creature that threatened
him. After that desperate foe was conquered,
he would pay his debt to Hugh,—not
through conscious impulse but by the mandates
of some great law of the wilderness and life that
no man may name or read. Hugh drew his revolver,
but its bullet was not for Shep. And the
three of them crouched low, waiting for the cat
to come in range.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He gave no thought to the fact that a pistol
is usually a futile weapon indeed against such a
mighty, strong-lived animal as a great cougar.
He knew by the animal’s frantic leaps that he
was desperate with hunger, stark mad from the
long chase that had never seemed to end, and
frenzied, perhaps, by the fire. The felines do
not often chase their game in open pursuit; but
in his madness he had forgotten his hunting cunning.
He saw the motionless flock and came at
a charge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Spot hurried around the flank of the flock and,
watching the cougar’s advance, Hugh was wholly
blind to the fact that every one of those three
thousand sheep lifted their lowered heads. The
cougar came almost straight toward him, as fast
as an African lion in the charge. He had
emerged from the brush only a little more than
a hundred yards distant, and half of the space
between had already been crossed. But still
Hugh held his fire. He knew that only at a
point-blank range would the little pistol bullet
stop that wild charge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And the calm, sure strength of the wilderness
itself came down and sustained him during the
stress and fury of the attack. His face was impassive,
his hands steady as bars of steel, his eyes
were narrow and bright and clear. He raised
the revolver. He glanced coolly down its sights.
And he fired for the first time when the great cat
was hardly forty feet away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The bullet sped true, inflicting a mortal
wound, and the great beast recoiled. But the
shocking power of the lead was not enough to
destroy wholly the mighty engine of life in
Broken Fang’s body. He snarled once in fury
and sprang forward again. But it was not the
hunting charge now. It was the blind, savage
rush of a wounded animal, ready to fight to the
death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Again Hugh shot with amazing accuracy, and
again the cat went down. But the impetus of his
fury could not be overcome. He leaped forward,
and the third bullet was a complete miss. The
fourth, following quickly upon it, inflicted a flesh
wound but halted him not at all. And he crashed
down once more at the fifth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But even then the vital, surging life in the
creature still lingered. He came creeping forward,
fangs gleaming, long talons bared. An
instant more Hugh waited, standing straight
and motionless. Only one bullet remained,
and no risks must be taken with that. Shep—who
had rushed about the flock at Spot’s
approach—came charging to his master’s
aid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>One long second dragged away, with a curious
effect of silence and immeasurable suspense. It
was such a picture that might never be effaced
from the memory: the suddenly awakened sheep,
the approaching forest fire, the motionless figures,
the snarling, creeping feline, and the red
glow as of the abyss over all. The creature
paused—scarcely ten feet distant—and gathered
himself for a final spring. Hugh fired his last
bullet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was one strange instant more in which
the bunched muscles relaxed and the great body
wilted in the pine needles. The dog leaped upon
it, but it was already impotent. A strength such
as but rarely comes to man had held Hugh’s
hand steady; and the shot had made a clean passage
through the creature’s brain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Broken Fang’s trail of rapine and carnage had
come to an end at last. He typified all that was
most deadly and terrible in the wilderness, and
he had fallen in fair battle with the breed whose
strength—in such regions where they venture—has
conquered the wilderness. He was a forest
monarch; but his foe was the shepherd. Talon
and fang and supple strength had not been availing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He would linger no more about the white
flocks, and the Little People along the game
trails had seen him steal by for the last time. No
more would the deer know his long, shuddering
scream as the night came down. He lay as if
fallen in battle against the flocks,—a token of
man’s dominance of the wild.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hugh turned from him to find a strange stir
and excitement among the sheep. It seemed to
him that in those invisible ways no man may
trace, a knowledge and a message was being
passed from one to another; and a new hope and
spirit was sweeping the flock. There was no
concerted movement as yet. Still the sheep
stood motionless, but their heads were raised.
The only moving forms were those of Spot and
his ewes, running along the flank of the flock.
And suddenly Spot turned back in the direction
that he had come.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And every animal in that flock of three thousand
leaped after him in pursuit. The whole
expanse of white lurched forward like an avalanche
starting from the high peaks. Hugh
cried out in irrepressible wonder, and thrill after
thrill coursed like electricity through his frame.
An unspeakable rapture flooded his being; and
he whirled about to find a white flame—no less
miraculous than this sudden sweeping-forward
of the flocks—mounting in Alice’s face. The
dog raced forward, barking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>By instinct rather than reason the shepherds
understood. Their old leader had for the moment
at least returned to the sheep; they rallied
as instinctively as soldiers at the sight of their
beloved general, and they were ready to follow
him even into the flame. It made no difference
that he was leading straight toward the flaming
wall to the east, a dreadful region where the fire
raged fiercely and whence without his leadership
they would have been afraid to go. They ran as
if with renewed spirit.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps they remembered him of old and gave
him their trust. Perhaps he brought them word
of some new hope that lay even in the jaws of
death. Swiftly the flock fell into its old formation,
the strongest in front, every black marker
in its place. They swept like a foam-covered
sheet of water into the red dusk of the distant
forest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come!” Hugh shouted. “Spot’s showing
us the way.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXXI</h1></div>

<p class='pindent'>“The Little People show the way,” was the
saying of a more credulous race in an older
West; and Hugh knew its truth at last. This
was no blind lead,—the westward course of the
bighorn ram in the van of the sheep flock. He
led them straight to a pass that only the wild
creatures knew, a course already taken by such
of the animals as had been trapped between the
converging walls of flame and through which
Broken Fang had pursued him. The instincts
of the lesser folk had served when Hugh’s own
conscious intelligence and knowledge had failed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After a half-mile’s wild run Spot turned into
a narrow-mouthed canyon, leading in a long
course clear to the high peaks. A creek had
flowed through it in some past age and carved
its banks, but through some geological catastrophe
its waters were diverted and only a dry
bed of stones remained. Half-hidden by heavy
brush thickets, neither Fargo nor Alice had ever
dreamed of its existence: it was just one of many
unknown gorges in the unlimited mountain
spaces of the American West. Spot—perhaps
wholly unaware of the fire—had sped down it
before the pursuit of Broken Fang, and now that
his enemy was slain he was simply taking the
same course back to his own people in the mountains.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The flame had not yet crept down its rocky,
barren walls. It was such a place as the rattlesnakes
love, but not a feeding ground for sheep;
and the little herbage that grew between its
bowlders had not offered a swift passage for the
fire. The flames raged above them on each side,
but the fiery walls had not yet converged and
made the impassable barrier on which Fargo had
counted. And Spot’s whole flock sped behind
him into its sheltering depths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were none too soon. Within a few minutes
the advancing tide of flame would have covered
its mouth if indeed it had not crept down
over the steep walls into the canyon floor itself.
But the straight road to safety was open at last.
Far beyond, leading him like a star, Spot could
see the glorious white peaks of his home. The
domestic sheep could not follow him all the distance,
yet the way was clear and safe for them
completely beyond the outer reaches of the fire.
And all that Hugh and Alice had to do—with
Shep running and barking with joy beside them—was
to follow the white flocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lesser folk had shown the way,—just as
many times before in the long roll of the ages.
No man could have followed Spot out from the
terror of the fire that night and still thought—in
monstrous arrogance—that the wild things of
the world were created only for his own blood-lust
and his own pleasure. The comradeship of
men and beasts is of ancient origin, and its utility
is not yet gone. The bighorn ram—exiled by
birth among strangers and lost to his brethren
once more because of the cougar’s hunting—was
headed back to his own snow-capped peaks—and
Hugh and Alice and the surging flocks had
simply followed his lead. And the way he had
shown was that of life and safety when all other
paths were closed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just before the dawn broke, Hugh and Alice
stood behind the flock, safe and far from the ravages
of the fire. Already Spot and his two ewes
had sped up a precipitate trail—where, because
of the steep rocks and the interference of Shep,
the domestic sheep could not follow—and now
all three thousand of them were quietly grazing
at the very foot of the high mountains. And no
man may say whether or not—like the lame child
of Hamlin town—they gazed with wistful eyes
toward the misty mountain realms where their
leader had gone. They had been of the mountains
too, when the world was young, and perhaps
they found themselves longing for the steep
ways and the hard days and the fierce delights
that constitute the lives of those mountain monarchs,
the bighorn sheep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The dawn grew in the east. The white peaks
glowed and gleamed. And the girl’s brown hand
crept into Hugh’s.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you know,” she asked him, whispering,
“that we’ve won? That we’re safe, after all?
The rangers are probably already on the way to
fight the fire, and we’ve nothing more to fear.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He turned to her, and they had a moment of
laughter in which they rejoiced at each other’s
appearance. Their clothes were torn and half
burned away; the man’s eyebrows and lashes
were singed; and their skins were smudged with
soot. But the perils and the stress had left no
weight upon their spirits. They were blistered,
hungry, desperately fatigued, but they were
gloriously happy and triumphant.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve won,” he echoed. “A few fatalities—but
not enough to count.” He had engaged
in much folly in his time, but it was to be said
of Hugh that he wasted no emotion or maudlin
words over the dead body of José in the burning
brush behind. “And we can get Fargo too—on
a charge of arson, at least. There will be some
way to handle him. And the only thing left to
talk about is you and I.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Shep, too,” she reminded him soberly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man glanced down into the loving brown
eyes of the shepherd dog. He also was dirty
and disheveled,—a shocking thing to be seen in
a drawing-room but beloved past all utterance
here. “Heaven forgive me, Shep, for forgetting
you,” the man cried, dropping to his knees. He
was quite sober as he held the dog a long moment
in his strong arms. His bronzed face was
intent. It was enough reward for Shep. His
master released him, and he circled round the
two of them, barking in mad joy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And after all they attended to Shep’s destinies
very swiftly. No wealth on earth could take him
from them. And because their thought was clear
and their understanding great, they did not even
consider banishing him to a life of ease,—a chimney
corner where he might doze away the days.
Shep was of the world of toil; until his noble
spirit departed from his body he would still have
his guard of honor over the sheep. He would
still know the hard labor, the long grinding
hours, the nervous sleep in the firelight beloved
of long ago, and perhaps—for reward—a plain
meal and a caress at the end of the day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And if you’re going to stay with Shep,” the
girl went on, her eyes averted, “it means—that
you’re going to stay with the sheep?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He smiled strangely. “Could I ever leave
them, Alice?” He groped for words, but none
had ever been invented that could reveal the sudden,
moving impulses of his soul. “I can’t tell
you how much it has all meant—how much it will
mean in the future. Don’t you see, Alice—that
this is my rightful place? With the sheep? In
the wilderness? I couldn’t go—even if you sent
me away, I’d have to go into the sheep business
on my own account.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s right—you could. You could raise
money——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He suddenly laughed,—in sheer delight. His
wealth—forgotten in the great vaults in an Eastern
city—would be of use to him, after all. In a
few breathless sentences he told her of his past
life, his wasted days, and his regeneration. They
would fill the hills with the feeding flocks, these
two. Still they would know the comradeship of
the camp fire, the night wind whispering through
the secret places. It was their heritage, and they
would not forego it. They were the shepherds,
and this was their destiny.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And if we’re both going to have old Shep,
and both follow the flocks—there’s another consideration,
too,” Hugh went on. “Maybe it’s
too much to ask. But the soldier has seen <span class='it'>some</span>
service; and he can’t restrain himself any longer.
We’ve got to have each other, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>A strong man’s love looked out to her from his
eyes, and his face was sober and wistful with entreaty.
There was just one instant in which the
whole world hung suspended over a pit of darkness.
And then, with a glad little cry, she stole
into his arms.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Each other—always,” she told him. “Oh,
shepherd of my heart!”</p>

<hr class='tbk108'/>

<p class='pindent'>And perhaps the spirit of the Old Colonel—sitting
in the Greenwood Club and dreaming of
the mountain realms he loved—came wandering
over peak and plain and saw these two, their
arms about each other and their eyes lighted with
fond dreams—and swiftly stole back to make its
report to its master. And thereupon the old
man smiled in his half-doze, wondering at the
mighty ways of worlds and men,—and the calm
spirit of the flocks, grazing in the forest.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;margin-top:2em;margin-bottom:2em;'>THE END</p>

<hr class='tbk109'/>

<p class='line' style='margin-top:2em;font-size:1.1em;font-weight:bold;'><a id='notes'></a>Transcriber’s Notes:</p>

<p class='noindent'>Archaic spellings and hyphenation have been retained. Obvious
punctuation and typesetting errors have been corrected
without note. Where multiple spellings were found, majority use has been
employed.</p>

<p class='line'>&#160;</p>

<p class='noindent'>[End of <span class='it'>Shepherds of the Wild</span> by Edison Marshall]</p>

